<v ->Well, welcome everyone.</v>
We are gonna have an amazing session today on predictive AI.
My name's Jim Harris.
I used to write a column for "i3" magazine of the CTA,
the Consumer Technology Association,
for five years before the magazine died.
Very sad.
We have an amazing panel today on predictive AI.
We're not gonna talk about history,
we're not gonna talk about our bios.
There is this amazing thing called The Google
that you can find out all about us here on the panel.
We're gonna dive right into the use cases,
which are practical, proven use cases
with bottom line benefit.
And I'll start with one.
I was invited to the launch
of Trenitalia's 300 kilometer an hour train in Rome,
and they had installed 1000 points of presence on the train
on different parts, and they measured vibration and sound.
And if something
went outside of SOP, standard operating procedure,
it would yell out, "Hey, I'm the brakes on car 4A,
and I am really vibrating a lot."
It would then use AI and say,
"We predict that part will break down in a week."
And rather than wait until
it paralyzed the whole train on the tracks
and threw the schedule of everything off,
they would replace the part that night.
It's called predictive maintenance.
And I think that if I get a better service,
it's gonna cost more.
Well, how about better service at 10% lower cost?
They're saving 10%
of their 2 billion euro budget on maintenance.
So there's an example of predictive AI
and a bottom line benefit.
So that's what you're gonna be getting in rapid fire
on our panel today.
So who wants to start us off?
How about you, Alyssa?
<v ->Okay, great.</v>
Alyssa Altman, I'm from Publicis Sapient.
And we're a partner with Marriott,
and in 2020 we worked with them
to develop Marriott Homes and Villas.
So I think you're familiar with Airbnb,
and what Marriott Homes and Villas was
is their form of Airbnb.
And was really struggling with people getting on the site,
figuring out how to define what kind of, you know,
vacations they wanted.
So we used generative AI
to help really change the search mechanism.
No longer are you coming on to Marriott Homes and Villas
and looking at a date and looking at a location,
but you're actually asking them,
"Hey, I wanna go to California.
I wanna bring my dog.
I wanna go to a bachelorette party in the Caribbean."
And it served up over 140,000 different options.
And what it also did on the predictive side of it
is it helped Marriott market better.
Because what they were able to do is,
with this tool, be able to understand
what people were interested in.
So it helped them predict how to manage their properties,
how to get people excited about going on vacations
and scheduling vacations.
And they have seen over twice the amount of searches,
which ultimately has translated into increased revenue.
<v ->Love that case.</v>
Thanks Alyssa.
Do you want to jump in, Nick?
<v ->Sure.</v>
So first, thanks Jim and the panelists and the attendees
for the opportunity to share the HARMAN story.
And thanks to our 30,000 employees
who deliver connected experiences,
intelligent using AI in the car,
in the home and in the enterprise.
You know, we're incredibly proud of the work that we do
as a Samsung company.
I would start out with the enterprise, you know.
And we all experienced what it was like
during the supply chain semiconductor crisis, you know,
having a massive effect on our ability to build, deliver,
and you know, get products in the hands of customers.
And so we were very fortunate to build a ForecastGPT,
which is available on the AWS Marketplace,
to help improve demand forecasting, inventory optimization,
and most importantly delight customers.
You know, there's nothing worse when you go online
and you want to order something and it's unavailable,
or there's nothing worse than having a parked car
waiting for a head unit to show up.
And so our ability to really improve the demand forecast
and the accuracy for our consumers
in the consumer audio space on jbl.com,
our ability to commit to our OEMs
for delivery of a digital cockpit
and car premium audio speakers,
our ability to commit to those demands is really important.
And then manage our supply chain effectively
on inventory optimization, we reduced our inventory by 14%.
So when you're talking about
billions of dollars of material, the ability to ensure
that you're getting the right product
at the right place at the right time
and managing that working capital,
to use that working capital for more R&amp;D capabilities
is pretty remarkable.
The GPT itself is built on ChatGPT
with a Mistral 7B on SageMaker, and it's 88% accurate.
So we're really proud of that.
We're continuing to find ways
to optimize the demand and sales
and finance and supply chain.
But that's one great example of what we're using AI for
to delight customers and not disappoint.
<v ->This is a great example.</v>
And for those of you
who were at Jensen's keynote from NVIDIA,
he was talking about running multiple scenarios
in a warehouse
around inventory management and optimization and logistics,
almost like doing Monte Carlos.
And so we're gonna see more of this kind of predictive AI
on how to optimize the supply chain.
So great example, Nick.
Who wants to jump in next?
<v ->I think I can go next.</v>
Mamatha Chamarthi,
'til four months ago I was with Stellantis,
so my experience spans across OEMs
as well as tier one suppliers.
And today I am with Goodyear,
I joined Goodyear about four months ago,
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company.
So I'll start with an example from Stellantis
and then talk to you about how you can take something
that was applied at Stellantis
and how it could be applied at a tier one supplier.
So when you look at a car,
and I think everyone knows this,
that the typical design of the car
takes five to seven years.
And through a lot of continuous improvement
and process improvement and engineering improvement efforts,
we as OEEs have been able to reduce that five to seven years
to three to five years.
And we were still looking at
how can we bring a product to market quicker
and start with the customer experience
and start working backwards
and defining what would be the ideal concept of the car
that would appeal to our customers?
And speed to market of the design
and testing it out with the customers
was very, very important.
And there was also an additional problem,
attracting talent into the design office
was also kind of going down.
That was not that many people
that were getting into the Center of Creative Studies
and those kind of institutes.
So it was a bit of a talent problem
but also speed to market problem.
And so what we did was we took all of the concepts
and all of the production vehicles
and all of the specs that we had
across the 14 brands of Stellantis
and fed into this design GPT.
And so the new designers that we were hiring,
they didn't have to start from scratch
and then build a clay model, go through this entire process.
But what they did was started as prompt engineers
asking DesignGPT, "I want to design a new concept for Jeep
and I want it to reflect the true personality
and the brand uniqueness of a Jeep.
But I want it to be an EV
and taking the attributes of the EV."
And my target segment of the customers
that I'm going after for this,
defining it at a micro segment level.
And into this design GPT, by doing this,
they got really a jumpstart.
And so this is a multimodal search,
that it's not just a text search,
but you're sending CAD drawings, you're sending all of these
and then getting back CAD images
of what this new concept car could look like.
And it gave almost close to a 40% jumpstart
into the design process.
Including the interior design, not just the exterior design,
interior design, exterior design,
and I would call it the phygital experience,
the physical experience and the digital experience
augmenting the personality of the brand.
Now how do we apply it to Goodyear?
So if you look at Goodyear and a tire, tire has a mold,
tire has tire engineering,
which is rubber, fabric, metal giving it the structure,
and then you have material science, lots of composites,
almost close to 250 chemicals
and synthetic and natural rubber
that goes into making of a tire.
Which I did not know coming from the OEE.
I was thinking car is very complex,
but tire is equally complex, that I learned.
And what we are trying now is a similar kind of
how do we accelerate?
Bringing a new tire to market is a two year timeline.
So how do we cut down the two year
and be a lot more competitive and bring the price down
and then bring the tire to market quicker?
<v ->This is a great example.</v>
And in my opinion, it is the least understood aspect of AI,
the benefit, cycle times and speed.
And you know, they say time is money.
Well, if you can take five to seven years
down to three to five years, that's a huge difference.
We're gonna finish out the first round with Davie.
<v ->Thank you, Jim.</v>
<v ->Davie, what's the case study</v>
you want to throw in?
<v ->I'm happy to be here, thanks for having me.</v>
Jumping right in, I think the first one
I would bring from Bosch is one we call Super Technician,
one we call Super Technician.
If you take your car to a service center,
what's probably happening behind the scenes
is you have one master technician back there
that's been there 25, 35 years that knows everything.
And then you have about 20, 30 technicians.
And what we found is that these technicians rely heavily
on this master technician.
This person knows the million potential diagnostic codes
that are coming out.
This person knows who to contact, which OEM to contact.
This person knows which website to go to to find the answer.
But this is normally one person,
and you have 20, 30 technicians
that are relying on this person.
So you can imagine there's a bottleneck.
It could take hours if not days to find this information.
And so when you consider this
and you consider the positioning of Bosch in this market
with over 35,000 service centers
and the data that we have is really the holy grail,
the question is, and I'm sure we all have
sort of this kind of problem where we have this data,
we just dunno how to get it out and to use it.
And so this is exactly where we started using AI.
We used some LLMs, a little bit of knowledge graph,
and we built an interface that allows these technicians
to all of a sudden become a master technician overnight.
So you can imagine that impact on the business
when you start to say,
"I've now taken it from multiple days
into really instant responses."
And also the relief of the master technician
who now doesn't have to support 20 to 30,
who can also then work on the more strategic aspects
of their daily job.
So it's a way that you can start to think,
it doesn't just impact the major service centers,
it also impacts the ma and pa shops
that are looking to really bring productivity
and efficiency into their line of use.
Really bringing everyone these technicians as AI-assisted.
And that's a little bit of how we look
at where AI can come in in this AI assistant world.
<v ->This is a great example.</v>
We talked about speed in the last use case.
This is,
think about time to competence for a new technician.
So they're only three months on the job,
but with the AI, it's like three years of competence
that they can access.
So amazing case study.
Alyssa, you started, so we'll come to you,
Nick, for round two.
And I think Nick's gonna talk about saving lives.
And I don't know if you know,
but there are 45,000 deaths every year on US roads
due to driver error.
And 5.2 million people go to hospital
because of car accidents.
Now that's just the US numbers.
When you look globally,
all those numbers are in the millions.
So distracted driving, drowsy driving,
these are huge problems.
What maybe is a case study around this?
<v ->Yeah, so we talked about the enterprise,</v>
and now talking about, you know,
intelligent experiences in cabin.
And you know, and certainly our ready products available
are really important to us.
And one of the really important areas that you mentioned
is improving the driver safety and our Ready Care product.
And our CTO Armin Prommersberger is in the back,
so I'm sure he'll do it more justice than I.
But really, he and his team are remarkable
at what they've done.
But they're using a camera
and machine learning sensors in the car
to determine not only drowsiness of the driver
but cognitive load on the brain
and distractedness in the eye movements
from the camera and the intelligence.
We've collected petabytes worth of data
to learn how people get distracted.
And so not only is it, you know, being able to determine
the distractedness of the driver,
but it's also the stress of the driver, the blood pressure,
the breathing rhythms.
And so being able to monitor that,
but then create some interventions and change
and make notifications to the driver,
change the controls, simplify the digital cockpit.
Or perhaps suggest, you know, soothing music.
These are all immersive, intelligent things
that Armin and his team are doing
in these Ready Care offerings
with the use of artificial intelligence
and machine learning.
So again, as we continue to find ways
to improve this immersive experience,
the Ready Care offerings and products
are really important to us.
<v ->So my car, if it suggests I listen to classical music,</v>
it's telling me I'm stressed.
And if it says stop for caffeine, I'm too drowsy.
<v ->You're gonna get some advice.</v>
<v ->You know, it's gonna give me advice</v>
one way or another, is it?
I love it.
Mamatha, what do you think?
<v ->Okay, so I'll extend on that same example</v>
of the intelligent cockpit
and this whole phygital experience,
again, starting with Stellantis and applying it to Goodyear.
So as we came together, Fiat, Chrysler and PSA
and we became Stellantis,
and we looked at the 14 brands and we said,
"We need to start working backwards
from the customer experience and what is it that they want,
to the tech platforms
and how we are going to commercialize."
But we started with a customer and said,
"What is that experience that we want to provide
to the customer?"
And we started looking at when a customer is buying a brand
like a Jeep for example, it has 4x4 capability
and it has all of this fantastic capabilities.
But imagine it's snowing outside.
Tomorrow I'm going to go to Michigan
and I'll witness that firsthand.
There could be like six inches of snow on the road
and you're entering into the car.
And how is that scenario?
Let me visualize that for you.
You could be in your home,
turn on your remote start in the car,
and hopefully by the time you get to the car
the snow has cleared on the window.
But the car does not have that intelligence to say,
the car is in a sports mode,
it needs to go into snow mode, right?
It's a Jeep 4x4 with all of the capabilities
that it could go, it could take that
and go to that vehicle signal.
So how do I get that intelligence
from the weather to the car and inform the car
not only to set the cabin temperature
to a comfortable ambient temperature,
including reducing the stress
that you were talking about, Nick,
and playing some soft music
because the snow driving is going to be extremely stressful
with slippery conditions.
And only a Jeep can take you anywhere, by the way.
So, but how do you send that intelligence
so by the time you sit in the car,
it's not only the snow around the car is cleared up,
but it's set into the snow mode
and your drive is super comfortable?
And I am talking about this with a real example
of me trying to get to work in 45 minutes
to go to a town hall,
and I'm trying to drive, look at the street,
and fumble with changing the mode.
That is distracted driving.
That's the 2.5 million accidents that you're talking about
that are going to the hospital.
So you talk about contextualized
and personalized experience to that customer
that deepens their association with the brand.
And you start creating a digital mode and you say,
"If my Jeep provides this kind of an experience,
I want to buy a Jeep again and again and again,
because it's deepening my connection to my brand."
Now when I start looking at Goodyear,
Goodyear has about 570 service centers,
similar to what you've talked about at Bosch.
And it's pretty similar thing, like, you know,
it's a very transactional relationship
we have with the customer.
A customer has a flat tire,
they have an option of going to a Bridgestone,
they have an option of going to Goodyear,
or going to a mom and pop store
or Discount Tires, Belle Tires.
There's umpteen number of competitors in this mix.
It's a very overcrowded space.
But in this overcrowded space, no one has figured out
how do I take this transactional relationship
to a lifetime value with the customer?
So what do I need?
I need vehicle intelligence
to predict when that weather change of summer tires
to winter tires happen.
So I can send a notice to Alyssa and saying,
"Alyssa, you have a Mercedes GLS 63 AMG.
Why don't you come in
and we will change your summer tires to your winter tires?
And we will store those summer tires for you,
and we'll notify you when your summer tires
need to be put on your car again."
That for me is a lifetime value.
That for me is building loyalty with the customer.
That for me says, when I think service,
I'll always think Goodyear.
And when I think tires, I'll always think Goodyear.
<v ->This is a great case study,</v>
'cause I have to remember every year
when my insurance gives me a, I live in Canada.
You can feel sorry for me with the snow.
But when I have to go change my tires,
and by the time we call, you know,
Mercedes-Benz is all jammed up with, you know,
300,000 people wanting to change their tires.
So early warning would be a great thing.
<v ->Exactly, exactly.</v>
<v ->Davie, what do you want to throw into this round?</v>
<v ->I mean, we're talking about use cases.</v>
So maybe a little bit different.
I mean, we've been through a scaling of technology before,
at least I think many of us have.
And when I look at data patterns
on how do you approach AI or gen AI,
you look a little bit in the past
to see how we've done it in the past.
And that really helps break the big problem
into smaller pieces.
And one thing that we've done very well,
or we've done I guess quite a lot over the past years
is automation,
especially when you talk about internal processes,
looking again for productivity and efficiencies and impact.
And if you think about, at least at Bosch,
if you take the experience that we've built
and hundreds of thousands of bot hours
that have been processed,
gen AI or AI in that same sense
is a little bit of that same pattern.
And so you can kind of build on that experience.
I mean, it's about finding technology platforms
or technology that fits within your security
and privacy requirements.
It's about finding tools that are easy to use
in self-service
that allows you to build on your citizen development aspects
when you're starting to talk about gen AI or AI.
And then finally it's about not leaving behind your people,
because it's a very scary time in our organization
when you start thinking about how AI is going to impact us
and our world.
And so if you look at that, and start to think about
how you can start to implement that,
that's maybe the next use case,
is we've built what we've call Ask Bosch,
which is an internal platform which allows our users
to build, experiment and innovate in a very safe way, right?
So with some guard rails
that allows us to really experiment.
And what we found is some really great examples
that have come out,
what I would say is more on the long tail
of where AI or gen AI is
and really how citizen development
can bring a lot of a lot of value.
One thing, if you think about our indirect procurement,
as a buyer, you have access to 90,000 contracts.
Each contract has 20 pages.
Every time you have a single question about that,
you have 30 clicks to come to your answer,
I mean, it's a prime example of being able to use LLMs
and a RAG solution to bring a very easy way
to bring a lot of efficiency and impact.
It makes your buyers happy,
it makes your customers happy, it makes your people happy.
And at the end of the day, that's really the target
as we start to look at how AI can really make impact.
<v ->This is really interesting.</v>
We work around the world.
And I recorded a webinar about a month ago,
it just passed 1.1 million views yesterday.
It's called the AI Revolution with Jim Harris.
And, look it up.
But I start with a 30 second piece in English,
and then it's in Chinese and then it's in German
and then Hindi and then Spanish and French.
And the first time I did it, a woman came up to me and said,
"Jim, your Mandarin was perfect."
And I said (speaking Mandarin) which is thank you,
the only word I know in Mandarin.
And so really, it's how can we use AI,
and this is a tool called HeyGen, how can we use AI,
given that we work in many countries
with many different manuals, and boom.
And always adding value for our customer.
We're gonna come for round two to you Alyssa,
for the last word on round two.
<v ->All right, well, so we work with a global pharma company.</v>
So your example around being able
to scale content globally is a good one.
So what we've done is we've helped them really think about
their whole content supply chain
from a marketing perspective.
They're spending a lot of money on outside agencies,
spending a lot of money even within their organization.
And as a pharma company,
the biggest challenge they have is legal review.
It would take like, too long
to get marketing content out there,
to get to the consumer, to personalize the content.
So if you think about all the idea
of really understanding the consumer
from a predictive perspective,
this tool is helping them do that,
and it's helping them do that at scale across the globe.
So we've seen seven times the number of reuse
from content globally.
They've been able to increase their speed to market
by 30% to 40%.
And it's all around thinking about, you know,
how you're taking your whole process,
but you're leveraging gen AI in the moment
and you're building on what you're learning
throughout the process.
<v ->This makes me think about the use case of design</v>
that Mamatha thought to throw in, which is,
if I'm designing something new,
whether it's a legal contract or a Jeep,
why can't I access templates
of parts or words of paragraphs and wording
so that building a standard template,
we don't have everybody reinventing the wheel
all around the world in different languages,
and now we have to carry, you know,
So this can help in speed and standardization as well.
Why don't you start with our third use case first?
And we gotta keep it tight to two minutes.
<v ->Okay, fantastic.</v>
So the customer that I'm going to talk about is Amazon,
a customer of Goodyear.
And how are they a customer of Goodyear?
We started as a proof of concept
in one of the warehouses of Amazon.
And so Amazon has this UEI,
which is a visual inspection technology.
It's looking at the undercarriage and around the vehicle
on the defects
as overnight the vehicles are rolling into the warehouse.
And we started as a proof of concept,
setting up a service point in the Amazon warehouse,
a Goodyear service point in the Amazon warehouse,
collecting those vehicle signals,
sending it to the fleet manager and saying,
"On this particular vehicle,
this is the maintenance that needs to be done.
And if you do not schedule it, you know, two weeks later,
here is the unplanned downtime that you could expect
from this particular vehicle."
And so because fleet managers,
they spend 50% of this administrative effort
is on looking at these alerts on notifications
on various vehicles,
and when is it that they need to schedule maintenance
for these vehicles?
And we said,
why don't we just automate this whole thing for Amazon?
So we started as a proof of concept.
Today in the US we are in 1/3 of the Amazon warehouses.
1/3!
And now we are expanding globally with Amazon
to EMEA as well as to APAC and also within US.
And think about the fleet manager,
instead of administrating, now he is spending time
actually looking at the productivity of his fleet.
<v ->So this is a great use case</v>
because the manager is now doing higher value-added,
more strategic things.
Fantastic.
We're gonna go into round three,
and this has to be a lightning round
because it'd be great to get some questions from you,
our dear audience.
So start us off on round--
<v ->I can start.</v>
<v ->Okay.</v>
<v ->So lightning round.</v>
I think the last use case I would bring is
we have a ticketing system implementation,
which is one of the major ones
that we have at Bosch at the moment.
And what we found, at least when you think about
how do we implement
or how do we bring AI into our organization,
there's two general ways.
One is what we call Use AI
and one is called, what we call is Build AI.
So Build AI is just like the name,
you are building custom LLMs,
bringing custom differentiating components
into your organization.
The second is Use.
And this is exactly, we are just using
what our partners are building.
And I think sometimes we forget about that,
but that's what we found has a lot of impact.
And so for example, our partner ServiceNow
is implementing Now Assist,
which gives us immediately access to gen AI components
inside of our organization.
So a use case in our logistics area
is we're getting transport messages
from a number of our suppliers.
And these come in different languages,
they come at different times of the day,
and they come very disparate.
And what we're able to do now is, again,
bring it all together, summarization, language,
natural language processing,
and makes our agents' life much easier,
makes them much more efficient,
and allow them to really respond,
which impacts our production.
So it's really, at the end of the day,
small changes using that generative AI
that comes out of the box.
I can't say enough about that in those cases.
<v Jim>Fantastic.</v>
Alyssa?
<v ->All right, so interestingly enough,</v>
we've been working with this House of Beauty brands.
And you know, they sell to not only retailers,
but they also sell to salons.
So they have a whole B2B capability.
And what they really needed was
how do they get their salespeople
to have a level playing field,
really understand who they're going in to see,
how they're serving up the content.
Very similar in the automotive space, as you've heard,
you know, really understanding, diagnosing
what they need to go in and sell.
So we help them leverage gen AI to think about how they,
you know, are serving up content to the salespeople.
But I think even more so,
when the salesperson gets into their car,
they can actually talk to the tool,
the tool will write up their notes,
prepare a email back to the client,
make sure they're sending their orders through.
And we're in the midst of this,
we're launching in one country, in Germany right now.
And one of the things that I wanted to share is,
you know, when we initiated this,
our biggest challenge was data
and making sure they had the right data
to be able to activate this.
So as you begin to think about predictive
and how you're entering the marketplace with gen AI,
with your use cases, really thinking about the data
and testing it in a way where it's action-oriented
and you can get content out there to people quickly
to test it out.
<v ->This is a great example.</v>
I know one CEO in the pharma space,
and she's got a 5X increase in open rates of her emails.
Because what she does is she uses ChatGPT
to research her prospect,
the CEO she's gonna pitch and the company,
to figure out their pain points
and then intersect that with her offerings.
And so it's not spamming people with the same email,
it is highly targeted to the real pain points
of that particular individual.
So I see a one-to-one future
that you've been talking about, Alyssa, which is how do we,
whether it's Marriott,
customize our offering just for you
with a dog or a bachelorette party or these other cases.
So we're gonna see more personalization,
which people then interpret as higher quality.
So it's an interesting time we're living in.
Our final example,
and then we'll take a couple of questions,
and then if there aren't enough questions,
we'll come back to another case study.
<v ->Great, thanks Jim.</v>
So we covered the enterprise
and improving inventory through ForecastGPT.
We talked about improving distracted driving
through our Ready Care product in the automotive space.
The last I'll share with
is on our lifestyle business and our consumer audio.
In terms of how we manage customer calls,
you know, we average 300,000 to 400,000
customer calls a year,
inquiries about technical questions
on our smart audio products and our headphones,
or returns, or wanting to know more about, you know,
recommended products.
And so we're using customer sentiment analysis with AI
to help really augment the case calls with our call center.
And what we're seeing is the AI goes through
and will look at the contextual information,
and within 300 milliseconds will help
informing the call center person the customer sentiment.
You know, is the customer frustrated, is there inquisitive,
are they negative, are they neutral,
or are they a promoter of the product?
And from that very quick analysis,
it arms the call center person to really narrow in on
how to serve the needs of that customer as efficiently
and as effectively as possible.
It normally takes us, you know, before that,
one to five minutes to really look through the questions,
the case, the information,
and really provide a level of information and accuracy.
The bot does it in, you know, 91% accuracy,
providing more intelligence to the call center.
And so when you're talking about that volume,
you're talking about that efficiency.
And you know, most importantly we're seeing
that over 60% to 70% of the calls
are going from a negative sentiment to a positive sentiment
just based on the way we're interacting.
And I know there's a lot of talk about AI replacing, right?
But what we look at is how does it augment,
how do we provide human-centric solutions
that improve the experience
with the human in the center of the loop?
So I think this is, again,
when we design these kinds of things,
when we wanna differentiate,
and I think Mamatha, you talked about customers have choice.
They can buy products from a lot of different opportunities.
But they want that personalized, unique experience,
seamless and frictionless.
And that's what will drive not only loyalty,
but you know, our long-term reputation
when it comes to being a very customer-centric company.
<v ->This is a great example.</v>
I've only been dealing with my bank for 50 years,
and when I want a new product,
they ask me my name, my address.
You know, only 50 years I've been dealing with them.
So how can we get out of the way all the stuff
that actually creates a very negative interaction experience
and automate all that?
So dear audience, we have four minutes and 20 seconds left.
So if you'd like to ask this great panel a question,
come to the mic.
We'll take number one.
And we're in our speed round, remember.
<v Audience Member>Thank you.</v>
I have a question related to you,
the master technician example that you had.
And you know, for like consulting companies,
you could have the same type of situation
where there's very experienced people in the company,
but all of that knowledge is not necessarily
written down somewhere.
So how do you get it,
I mean, they don't put a USB stick into their head.
So how do you get it into--
<v ->Not yet.</v>
<v Audience Member>Into a format</v>
where generative or predictive AI can help you?
<v ->That's an amazing question.</v>
<v ->Yeah, great question.</v>
I mean, to answer the question
specifically for the Super Technician,
it's because with Bosch's experience
and over 100 years of a company with the data,
we have that.
And the problem wasn't necessarily putting a USB stick,
although that probably would've been easier
than trying to consolidate all the data that we have
and the different data lakes.
That was the exercise.
It was trying to bring the data
in a way that was easily consumable.
And what gen AI allowed us to do is exactly that.
So it was leveraging knowledge graphs,
we brought in the natural language aspect,
and then we really brought a easy interface
for those technicians.
Even if you started the first day,
you can now come in and have access to that.
And you can correlate that
to really a lot of other industries.
I mean, especially in the software development,
I guess you can also look at that in the same way.
You have peer programming,
where senior developers are the ones that are doing
with all the knowledge.
So it's going to be, you can correlate that
to a lot of other aspects.
But hopefully that answers the question.
<v ->You probably also had expert technician use the app,</v>
because it's a learning agent
and it's learning to get better and better
and mimic the behavior of the expert technician.
<v ->Yes. I mean, at the end of the day,</v>
that's the holy grail is that service data, yeah.
<v ->We are at the early innings of this AI revolution.</v>
Microsoft before the show
announced it will spend $80 billion,
I feel a Dr. Evil moment coming on,
$80 billion on AI data centers, 50% of them in the US.
So Microsoft is really doubling down on AI.
So we are just at the start of this AI revolution.
And these case studies we've heard today
are gonna continue to advance.
We have time for one more quick question if there is one.
And if there isn't one, by show of hands, I don't see one,
we're just gonna go to a quick 15 second final insight
from everyone.
Who wants to start it?
Davie, why don't you start us off on the far end there?
<v ->(laughing) Okay, thanks.</v>
I mean, I think as I said, look in your organization
for other ways that you've scaled technology successful.
Take those lessons learned and bring AI in that same way.
And please don't forget your people,
because they're the most important part
of that transformation.
<v Jim>Fantastic.</v>
Mamatha?
<v ->So what I would say is do not try to</v>
hold all of this knowledge and expertise in one small group.
Try to democratize it and create a tool set
and platform that all employees could use.
And when you have Millennial and Gen Z kind of employees
that are used to this way of working,
this kind of tool set will help implement things
and bring things faster to market for your company.
So don't just leave it to an engineering
or any other organization, democratize it.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
I would say that,
make sure you have a strong governance model
and you're building ethical, responsible,
and explainable AI models.
The human has to be at the center of the loop,
both from a validation and biases perspective.
But digital trust is everything.
And so making sure you have a very strong governance model
incorporated into your frameworks is incredibly important.
<v ->Fantastic.</v>
And we are gonna finish in the very same place we began.
<v ->Okay, so think of yourself as inventors.</v>
And not only focusing on technology,
think about how you're creating strategy,
how you're creating experiences.
It will change the way your organizations work.
So thinking about it holistically
and really changing the mindset of what you do every day.
<v ->This has been an amazing panel.</v>
This is gonna go up 28 to 48 hours from now,
live stream, not live streaming,
streaming on the CTA website.
So tell your friends about it.
If you could join with me in thanking this amazing panel
for their insights.