<v ->Hello everyone.</v>
We have handheld mics, so hope these work out for all of us.
Welcome to our session. We're all really excited to be here.
Before I let everyone introduce themselves
and share their vision, I wanna introduce our panel first.
My name, Jane Sarasohn-Khan. I write the Health Populi blog.
This is my 16th CES.
I think health is everywhere,
and it's certainly everywhere at CES this year.
I wanna introduce our panel about the home and health
with a quote from 20, almost 21 years ago.
Dr. Charles Safran, S-A-F-R-A-N,
who still teaches at Harvard, was president of AMIA.
Those are the wonky folks who do
healthcare industry standards and things.
He's a healthcare informatician.
And Charles gave testimony to Congress,
the House Ways and Means Committee,
when EHRs were but a little dream,
which may have become a nightmare or not,
depending who you are, who we ask.
But Charles told the Congress folk
that patients were the most underutilized resource
in the United States health system.
So we fast forward a couple of decades,
and patients are still pretty underutilized in many ways.
But the home has a lot of promise
for enabling engagement in health,
and that's what we're gonna talk about today.
So without further ado, I'm gonna ask first Ricky Choi
of Samsung to introduce himself
and share his/Samsung's Holy Grail vision,
a hope and promise for health that's smarter from home.
Ricky.
<v ->Great, well good morning. Congratulations to all of you.</v>
You've made it to Thursday of CES.
So we really appreciate your attention and interest
in this whole area.
My name is Ricky Choi.
I'm the Head of Digital Health
at Samsung Electronics America.
I'm also a practicing clinician, as faculty at Stanford.
For Samsung, our vision is to build a healthier future
through connected care, centered around the home.
Now it's kind of obvious, but the home is just so critical.
It's where we begin our health journey almost every day.
Maybe not this week, but most days.
It's where we sleep to restore our body.
It's where we cook, and where we eat.
It's where we exercise, where we live our lives.
And at Samsung we feel like
that we have an incredible opportunity
to start to improve health through the home.
Given our very broad portfolio, our really deep penetration.
As we think about it,
70% of American homes have Samsung technology in it.
TVs, refrigerators, microwaves, wearables, and et cetera.
And so as a doctor, and as a leader in the health team,
I'm constantly trying to think about
how do we then tie these touch points together
to help people better understand their health.
To recognize their health status,
bring awareness when they might have a early sign
or symptom of a health condition,
tie them to care when they might need it,
help them when they get back home to recover.
And of course, care for their dependents,
whether it be aging parents, or their children.
So thinking a lot about the role of AI to do this,
or the role of next generation biosensing wearables
to tie those things together,
so we can drive personalized insights
to help people figure out what's that next best thing to do.
And if we do this really well,
then we have healthier people
who have more control over their health
and they can spend more time focusing on living their life
than constantly worrying about their health.
I should just add one other point.
While Samsung has this broad portfolio,
we fully recognize that health is a team sport.
As a physician, I can't practice by myself.
I need other people around me to be able to do this better.
People who are experts in what they do.
And so we have a very strong ecosystem-based approach
in order try to move this forward,
so we can find best partners to work together
in order to move towards this vision.
Thank you.
<v ->And as we move on to Antoine Robiliard,</v>
if there's someone who can turn the clock on
and get us on the right time, I would appreciate it.
So we can keep everyone to time, thank you. Antoine.
<v ->Good morning everyone. My name is Antoine.</v>
I lead Withings' efforts with the healthcare industry.
So for those of you who don't know us,
Withings invented the smart scale about 15 years ago.
And since then we've been developing devices
to help people take care of themselves at home.
We have a full ecosystem of devices.
And what we're really, really good at is at finding our way
into the daily life of users for a very long time.
And thanks to that, we're able to help them, to nudge them,
to drive them in the right direction towards better health.
About five years ago,
we created a division for the healthcare industry
to help care teams monitor their patients
with chronic conditions and drive better health outcome.
And it's thanks to this expertise with the consumer,
thanks to our ability to find our way
into their daily routine, their daily habits,
that we're seeing success in healthcare today.
Because we actually make devices and experience
that people like to use, that people want to use,
that people use in the long term,
and therefore generate data.
We're not asking them to use a piece of hospital at home.
We're sending data back from home to the hospital.
So for us, the vision is, thanks to that,
thanks to all this data that we're able to generate,
all the trends that we're able to see,
we're able to enable proactive healthcare.
So it's about collecting data in the daily life,
bringing this data to life in a meaningful way
to patients or to users, nudge them in the right direction,
and you mentioned AI.
I think there will be a lot of things to be said about that.
And more importantly,
connecting them to the healthcare industry when needed,
when we detect something.
When we have somebody that sleeps in their bed
and we see that there is a risk of sleep apnea.
When they're wearing a wearable, no matter the brand,
and we see there is a risk of AFib.
When we're able to detect various chronic conditions.
There are a lot that we can do today.
And the future for us will be about that.
Will be how can we help both users and care teams
identify a risk at a time
where we can actually have an impact on it
and avoid sick care.
<v Jane>Gabby.</v>
<v ->Hi there. My name is Gabby Goldblatt.</v>
I lead healthcare partnerships at DiMe,
or the Digital Medicine Society.
DiMe is a global research and education nonprofit,
and we convene and activate diverse stakeholders
around really complex problems
at the intersection of healthcare and technology.
We were really excited at the end of 2024
to announce a new Connected Health Collaborative Community
with the Consumer Technology Association and FDA
so that we can really intentionally convene, and again,
activate all of the different parties needed
to unlock the power of connected health
and healthcare at home.
What I'm excited about with healthcare at home
is how it really has the opportunity to empower people
to take their health into their own hands.
Have this real-time feedback,
this real-time data to learn more about themselves
and how they can make changes
that are really meaningful and impactful.
We're excited that we have
the Connected Health Collaborative Community
to make this a reality.
<v Jane>Carlos.</v>
<v ->Hi. Hello everyone, my name is Carlos Nunez.</v>
I'm the Chief Medical Officer of a company called ResMed.
And ResMed is the world's leading provider
of digital and connected solutions for sleep health,
breathing health,
and healthcare that's delivered in the home.
And I'm gonna make a pretty bold statement right now.
I think what this panel represents is the culmination of
what the health division at CTA represents.
The reason companies like ResMed
or the Digital Medicine Society are here,
it's because consumer companies like Samsung or Withings
are converging into this space between the home,
between the consumer,
and the traditional parts of the healthcare system.
We, as healthcare companies, or as medical companies,
are moving closer to the consumer.
And consumer companies are moving closer into this area
of health and wellness,
and even disease management in the home.
And so, again, bit of bold statement, but for me,
what this represents, this conversation today,
is the promise of what CTA brings to the table here.
The consumer, the person,
long before they ever become a patient,
worries about their health and their wellness.
And the United States and health systems around the world.
We call ourselves healthcare systems,
but we truly are more like disease intervention systems.
We don't do as good a job keeping people healthy,
having them live their best lives
where they want to be, in the place where they live.
And so being able to work with companies like the consumer,
work with the Consumer Technology Association,
and companies that are members
to make sure that those consumers in their homes
have access to the technology and the innovation
that can generate the data and the insights
to help keep them happy and healthy where they want to be.
It's the promise and the future
of where healthcare needs to go.
If we don't do this right,
the system is unsustainable as it stands.
And more people are in their homes,
or where they live their lives than they are in a hospital
or in a doctor's office, hopefully.
And it gives us an opportunity,
those unique insights into the patient,
which are the most underutilized resources in healthcare.
<v ->Thank you. So it's the conversation.</v>
Let's riff a little bit on prevention and well-being,
since you brought it up, Carlos, and not sick care.
'Cause that's one of the promises of the home.
Since we're only seeing a doc a couple times a year
and for a few minutes.
How can this smarter home for health
bolster our well-being, not just to make good choices,
whatever your technology or device your program seeks to do.
Who would like to take that on first?
<v ->I'm happy to go with this.</v>
To me, it's about the long term.
It's about how do we find our way into the daily life
of the users, or the patients, to generate this data,
to generate this trend that will help us
to nudge them in the right directions.
And too often I think we forget that,
on the other side of this remote patient monitoring program
or any program that healthcare organizations are leading,
too often, we forget that that patient is a user,
but that user is a consumer.
They consume, they have expectations.
We can't just expect them to change their daily habits,
to go in completely different directions,
towards better health.
We need to find ways to really integrate
into their daily lives,
and give them this little insight, little help,
to make little changes every day
because the accumulation of these little changes
that will drive something better.
I like to use an example. I love details.
On our scales, we show the weight trend.
Because who cares about the actual number?
The number is not important.
What's important is how you trend.
And by knowing how you trend every single day,
when you step on that scale, it helps you, as a user,
to make that little decision every single day
to be a little bit more healthy.
So for us it's really, yeah,
finding your way into the daily life.
The very, very long-term,
creating experience that are enticing
and that blend completely into the daily habits.
<v Jane>Go ahead, Rick.</v>
<v ->I just wanna comment on something</v>
you just kinda said offhandedly,
how you might only see your doctor a couple times a year.
I remember being in a meeting,
and hearing a presentation about diabetes.
And the speaker was saying,
"It's such an outrage that patients on average,
diabetics may only see their doctor an hour a year."
And I thought, "Wow, that's four visits a year.
That's a lot of visits!"
And so that kinda speaks to the mind frame,
where as a physician, wow, that's a lot of time.
But the patient obviously needs so much more than that.
Now, I think a lot of consumer technologies,
it started out with very basic things.
Like if you think about your wearable.
It was counting steps early on.
And now fast forward to where we are now,
now we're detecting risks of sleep apnea
and measuring percentage body fat and et cetera.
We've come a long way.
And at Samsung,
our four pillars are around stress management,
diet, exercise, and sleep.
Can't forget sleep, sorry, Carlos.
And sleep, absolutely.
And as we've started to refine and develop
what are traditionally kind of wellness types of areas,
we very quickly found out, oh, by the way,
those are the very foundations of prevention.
And as we think towards down that whole pathway
from prevention to early signs of illness
and on and going on,
most chronic disease and many disease programs
have at their foundation, not surprisingly,
sleep, exercise, diet and stress management.
And so we think of, and rehab programs and et cetera.
So there is a, for a different population.
So if you think about it, for me,
for the young spry people on the stage,
10,000 steps, who cares?
We did that yesterday, right?
We did 20 right on the floor at CES.
But for someone who just had a heart attack, bypass surgery,
knee replacement and et cetera,
1,000 steps, 5,000 steps, 10,000 steps
are extremely meaningful,
and create some interesting business opportunities I think,
because of that particular segment.
So all this to say is that there is a continuum
that from the consumer side that we're seeing,
there's value, leaning in on prevention,
and then in some ways, risk management.
<v ->Also, I just wanna brag about holding it here.</v>
I wanna brag about something Samsung
has done well for a few years,
and it's finally really come to be commercial and real.
'Cause I've been tracking this.
Your smart refrigerator,
shout out to your partnership with Instacart.
So you might not have read this press release
a few days ago, but Samsung and Instacart are collaborating.
You all know who Instacart are.
And if your app with your fridge
knows that you're managing diabetes or a low-salt diet,
the fridge can look inside, look at ingredients you have,
say you're a busy working mom.
The fridge knows what ingredients you have,
generates a recipe with the ingredients you have,
puts it in the screen, in your app,
sends a note to Instacart to say,
"Make a list of what's not in the fridge
she needs for this recipe."
And Instacart will either deliver it to you
or you can pick it up at the grocery store.
That's streamlined.
That's not just nudging, but supporting me,
and my, and my family's health.
So I just have to give you a shout-out.
I have no skin in his game at all.
I'm saying this as a consumer
who could spot what good looks like.
Congrats.
<v ->I mean, and I've just said,</v>
I think the layer, I hear what you're saying.
And this is the my mantra, even with my patients,
is how do we make the healthier choice the easier choice.
The easier thing to do.
So every time we take a friction step,
including I have to restock my fridge off your to-do list,
it makes it that much easier to do.
It's a little like how you set,
you can, for your paycheck,
you can automatically get it sent to a savings account
or donating, otherwise it's out of sight, out of mind,
but you're still doing the right thing.
The more we can do healthy things that way,
I think, the better.
<v ->Carlos, how do we nudge for better sleep</v>
and sleep health?
<v ->Yeah. So, and thank you for mentioning sleep, Ricky.</v>
And you've heard it a couple times now.
I'm here to convince you that
there is the most powerful medicine on earth.
It lives within you, and it's completely free.
And it really is.
It's a good night's sleep.
You heard Ricky mention the pillars of good health.
Sleep, diet, exercise, stress management.
Where you live, in your home, where you spend your time.
We have overemphasized in some ways,
things like diet and exercise at the expense of sleep.
We sometimes wear it as a badge of honor.
And if we want to talk about health and wellness
in the home, really, sleep is a massive part of it.
And it's not just, ResMed is a company that is known for
treating some sleep disorders like sleep apnea.
And both the Withings and the Samsung wearables
can actually detect sleep apnea.
And that's a very good thing.
But just sleep in general,
good healthy sleep is so important.
You mentioned,
how do we promote health and wellness in the home?
How do we go from sick care to more of a healthcare system?
And I think people just need to be aware
that there are significant components to health
that we often ignore.
And going back to the original thread
about the health in the home and consumer tech,
we've seen now for the last 20 or so years,
as you know, the Internet era has blossomed
and transformed into now the era of AI,
data is the currency that drives so much
of what we want to do.
And it's the consumer technology companies and platforms
that have shown us, if you collect enough data,
even if it's messy, even if it's not as coordinated
or beautiful as it is lined up in your EHR,
you learn a lot about people.
And the things you learn can help nudge them
to make better choices about their food,
to make better choices about their sleep,
and to understand why it's important.
And if you are going from wellness
to actually taking care of a chronic disease in the home,
I'll pick on the one I know the best, sleep apnea.
Having devices that are connected
so that not just your provider can see how you're doing,
but that you can understand how you're doing.
And the last thing I'll mention,
there is a protocol emerging in the smart home.
It's called Matter.
And it's a consortium of all of the major tech companies,
including like the Apples and the Amazons and the Googles
of the world,
that are trying to make a unified platform
so that whatever smart doorbell or smart light bulb you buy,
it will work with whatever assistant.
And there is a working group within Matter
that is looking to make sure that connected medical devices
can participate in that protocol.
So imagine a future that's not so far away
that your smart assistant of choice, let's say it's Alexa,
you set your alarm and it wakes you up,
and turns on your lights and says, "Good morning, Carlos.
By the way, your connected CPAP device said you did great.
You slept eight hours and you kept it on all night.
And we're gonna correlate it to the number of steps you take
or how well you make decisions about the food you eat."
That's the future.
The future is this multimodal approach
to using data in the right way, secure, anonymized,
appropriate for you,
appropriate for your provider in your situation,
to make sure that everything in your home,
everything in your life
can nudge you to make those good choices.
You use the term good choices.
We're in the city where people sometimes make bad choices,
mostly 'cause they stay up late,
and my friends in the National Sleep Foundation
that are sitting right there in the front row,
this morning told me, he says,
"Maybe people make bad decisions in Vegas
'cause they don't sleep well."
So, not to belabor the point, but yes,
sleep is extremely important.
I think it's a cornerstone of
what we're trying to accomplish.
<v Antoine>If I could add,</v>
<v ->I wanna ask Gabby.</v>
In the partnerships that DiMe is forging,
are there any focusing on prevention well-being?
Can you tell us a story about that?
<v ->Yeah, I think there's an increasing focus on prevention.</v>
To Carlos's earlier point, we have a sick care system,
and we need to reverse that into a true healthcare system.
And so we work with a lot of partners
who are literally sitting at the intersection
of consumer technology and healthcare,
and starting to bridge that gap
and making it easier for consumers, patients,
whether they're at home, or whether they're on the go,
and can actually use these connected devices
to continuously keep track
and work towards those preventative goals.
<v ->Antoine, did you wanna insert something?</v>
<v ->I wanted to add something on what Carlos said.</v>
You said that's the future. I think the future is here.
I think it's happening already today.
And I have a personal story to share on sleep apnea.
We have a device that track sleep apnea.
So I have four years of every single night
how my sleep apnea evolves.
Three years ago, I moved to the US,
and I started, I got my first kids.
I started to gain a little weight.
I have kids,
<v Jane>Welcome to America.</v>
<v ->No, I'm not saying...
I didn't say that.
I'm blaming the kids, I'm blaming the kids.
But I didn't care.
I didn't care because I have a wife, I have two kids.
Who care if I gain a little weight? It's okay.
And then one day,
I realized that my sleep apnea is going like crazy.
I move from being pretty much all the time in the green
to being in the yellow and sometimes in red.
And I'm like, "Wow, that's bad."
Gaining a little bit of weight is kind of okay.
But developing sleep apnea is much less.
And having access to this data has allowed me, as a user,
to change little things every day.
Lose a little bit of weight, and it got much better.
So I divided my AHI by two over six months
by losing about 15 pounds by myself.
No external help. And it just works.
And I am very excited about the potential
of everybody being empowered by this kind of data,
to make these little choices every day,
and be on their way to better health.
And I think it has started already.
<v ->Just to talk a little bit about the data.</v>
Again, it's so important.
Because, healthcare, there's an old quote.
Healthcare is data rich and information poor.
We could almost say that about the home,
except as I mentioned before, companies like Samsung,
Alphabet, Meta, have shown us that you can collect this,
every human now gives off a digital exhaust stream
every single minute of every single day.
Millions of data points generated.
And we've learned now through the rise of generative AI,
you can take these messy data
and turn them into real insights.
So where maybe hospitals are data rich and information poor,
although that is getting much, much better,
that tech companies,
the consumer tech companies have shown us
that the home doesn't have to be that way.
That you can take all of these data
and create those insights.
And sleep is so important,
not just for the reasons I mentioned,
but it's one of the most connected specialties
in all of healthcare.
Not to talk specifically about my company,
but it's the example I know the best.
Every one of our CPAP devices, for example,
has a cellular radio.
And it's had those for 10 years.
We have 25 million connected devices in patients' homes,
and 20 billion days and nights
of sleep and respiratory data.
Not 20 billion individual points,
of millions and millions of data points.
That allows us to do really interesting things
with research in making products better.
And also, doing it in an ethical way,
so that we can be a part of this ecosystem
and be proud of how we participate.
Because when you wake up and you get that score and it says,
"Oh my gosh, my breathing is worse."
I wear two different wearables,
a smart watch, and a smart ring.
And the insights and the apps
that the consumer facing companies can build for engagement,
it's a lot different than an EHR
that sometimes struggles just to engage the physicians
that have to use them.
So you're absolutely right.
Whether it's data about the way you're sleeping,
now there are over the counter CGMs.
I've tried both of the ones available in the US.
It's amazing how engaging the data and the insights can be
to help change your behaviors.
Maybe lose a few pounds
and do better when you sleep at night and breathe.
Or watch what you eat and decide,
"You know what?
Maybe I'm not gonna have that extra serving
that the American portions have given me.
I'm gonna go back to my French thinking,
and eat good bread and drink good wine."
<v ->Is Eric Wicklund, the writer, in the audience?</v>
Eric! Hi.
So the reason I'm taking your name not in vain,
but in joy and love,
is Eric recently wrote a piece in the last couple weeks
on the hospital to home isn't going so well.
And I take your point, I'm a health economist,
we're the dismal scientists.
We know, we think about barriers and limits.
So I wanna address some of the barriers and obstacles
to getting to our Holy Grail of health at home
from each of you.
And Eric, thanks for the inspiration.
Each of you, I would love you to identify one obstacle
or barrier to getting to the vision that you shared earlier
and how to mitigate it, get over it,
or how you might have done that at Samsung or Withings
or ResMed or a lesson from DiMe.
So who would like to talk about
one of these darker sides and how to mitigate it?
<v ->Yeah, I'm happy to get that conversation started.</v>
I think that what we've been hearing from consumers,
as well as healthcare industry stakeholders,
is a kind of a fatigue around point solutions.
And there are a lot of them on the floor.
And I think, I'm not an engineer,
but I know you have to start somewhere in an MVP
and build out and start and then building out.
But there is this kind of general,
can we start to think about the person more holistically,
from a thinking about the person perspective,
but also thinking about from a operational
and business perspective,
can we engage with this in a way
that can scale within my institution?
So I think that we need to start to think about
how do we get towards a little bit more
of a platform-based approach
in terms of addressing these things.
I just want to, and maybe add a little bit of color,
and a little bit of a shout out to the CTA is,
I think yesterday, they just made public a report
based on an interviews of people
of multiple different generations,
asking about their awareness, their use,
barriers, demands as it comes to smart technologies
and connected care in the home.
And not surprisingly, the top two were ease of use.
And the second one is around cost.
So what I'm trying to get to is that
we need to start to think about
how do we have a platform-based approach,
that can kind of keep the messiness below the platform,
but make it incredibly easy to use on top of the platform
where we're engaging with a patient, consumer, and user,
whoever that may be.
Caregiver too. We should be talking about that as well.
And I'm sure you're excited to talk about that.
Today, I mean, here at CES,
through our really strong partnership with AARP,
we started to think about
what could that platform look like?
And so you have a project called CareHub,
where we're imagining where you bring streams of data
from multiple different technology companies and solutions.
How do we create an interface that is easy to use
that solves problems, and hopefully that will,
we can use that as a starting point
to continue to build forward.
<v Jane>Great. Antoine?</v>
<v ->I fully agree with this. I would add another one.</v>
I think it's around trust.
How do we help care teams cut through the noise,
understand what is legit and act on this flow of data
that is coming to them.
And I don't think it's about more data,
I think it's about better data,
but that's a different story.
But the fact is, we're getting all this data from home.
Care teams are not used to that.
And it's not their fault.
It's just the way it has been working forever.
So how do us, as the industry,
we can do the job to educate better on what we're building,
develop this trust, and help them understand
how it can be helpful in the management of the patient.
For me, when I show my data to a physician,
one of two things happen.
One, they know Withings, and they're like,
"Oh, cool. So, what does it say?
Tell me more. Tell me more."
The other one is like,
"Yeah, nevermind. Let's start."
But I'm coming with so much data
that I understand that it's hard.
So I think the burden is on us. It's not on the care teams.
They already have so many things to do.
It's on us to kind of raise the bar and better explain,
better demonstrate the impact of what we can do at home.
<v ->Very much agree with both of you.</v>
One thing that we also think a lot about at DiMe
is how we're actually articulating the ROI
associated with these new and emerging technologies.
And articulating that ROI to different stakeholders,
while also being aligned
with how that is being articulated, right?
So that ensures
that you're actually thinking about why a clinician,
or how a clinician can be engaged with consumer technology.
There's a huge risk in not bringing clinicians along,
as we increase the use of consumer technology
and creating more silos and more data
that maybe clinicians don't know what to do with it.
So making sure again,
that we're thinking about that clinical ROI,
but also that health economic ROI.
And that's why it's important, and what we do at DiMe,
is bringing together all of these diverse stakeholders
to really uncover what we're talking about
when we're thinking about the return on investment,
and what value looks like to different stakeholders.
<v ->Yeah, similar to what Antoine was saying about trust.</v>
I think that for me,
one of the barriers coming from this direction,
from healthcare towards the consumer is that,
forgive my, sorry, Ricky.
So I'm a physician like Ricky, obviously.
We need to sort of get over ourselves a little bit.
Stop being so paternalistic and so protective of healthcare
and start to meet patients and people where they are.
Understand that things that they learn
in the ways that they learn them.
It might be social media,
it might be a question that they ask to ChatGPT,
or Perplexity, matter to them.
That these new technologies may be different,
or uncomfortable, but we have to be curious.
We have to kind of get over ourselves,
stop being so set in our ways.
So worried about disruption and embrace the disruption.
It's happening.
And healthcare has notoriously been behind
in other industries.
Bill Gates once famously said,
"If the automobile industry was like the computer industry
where computers get more and more powerful every year,
and cheaper and cheaper every year,
cars would be free, and run on water."
Healthcare has lagged, sometimes 20 years behind,
in the adoption of certain things.
And again, it's often that paternalistic approach.
It's not the regulatory agencies.
I see folks from the FDA in the audience.
They have a digital health practice within the FDA,
they've approved, if I get the number wrong,
please forgive me,
but nearly 1,000 devices that are software-based,
AI-based applications in healthcare.
It's not the regulators that are often holding us up.
It's not the patients who are refusing to embrace this.
It's often medicine,
organized medicine in the healthcare system that is slow,
because, I don't know why,
but we just, again, I hate to say it like this,
get over ourselves and be curious.
Embrace the disruption. It's happening.
And if you are not a part of it,
it's gonna happen around you and you'll be disintermediated.
<v ->I love that.</v>
And just, if I could just add one thing,
to weave a bit together.
To Gabby's point about an ROI,
which is something I think about a lot.
There was this seminal article in JAMA many years ago,
when value-based payment was starting to be a phrase.
And now we're kind of sick of it, 'cause when, when.
But the title of the article, and look it up,
because it's really worth reading.
It's "Value-based Payment
Requires Valuing What Matters to Patients."
And it's sort of pay,
if we're doing this home health thing,
the new home as the health hub,
people are inviting us into their home.
So we need to be designful, respectful,
loving, enchanting, even.
But we have to keep that in mind
as we're all at CES looking at shiny new things,
to make sure that these are products
designed with ethics by design.
You talked about, Carlos, privacy by design.
So I think about the ROI in the eyes of the patient,
or the caregiver who may be paying
for this out of their own pocket.
So as we come to the last big question,
which is that we are all in this together.
No one owns the home.
It's a sandbox full of opportunity for collaboration.
So let's talk about friends and collaboratives.
How do you figure out who to collaborate with
in delivering new, new solutions, new programs?
What filters do you use? Some best practices?
So who want...
Gabby, do you wanna start?
'Cause you're kind of the collaboration guru here.
<v ->Happy to.</v>
A lot of times, it starts at places like CES,
where we're listening to what the field is saying.
It also happens in conversations with people,
with friends and family, to hear what their challenges are,
and where there's opportunity
to match both what people at CES are saying,
and what people are saying.
Taking that data-driven approach,
and then actually convening around
a very specific problem statement
and bringing different stakeholders together
around the table is really how we're going to be able
to not only adopt a smart home, a health at home model,
but really accelerate it and achieve the promise
that all of us spoke about at the beginning.
And if we don't,
if we're not all kind of rowing in the same direction,
if you will, we risk making mistakes
that we've made in healthcare before.
Like we saw in scaling EHRs,
like we've seen in other situations.
And so we have the opportunity now to commit ourselves,
to actually commit ourselves to collaboration.
So that's what's exciting about these types of conversations
and I look forward to hopefully being able to
working with all of you and you all, in again,
making this connected health space a reality, and sooner.
<v Jane>Jump in.</v>
<v ->I'll go next.</v>
I think collaboration is going to be key.
To the point I was making before,
the traditional sides of the healthcare industry
are going to have to be comfortable collaborating
with a consumer electronics company,
collaborating with conveners like DiMe or like CTA.
I think, for those of you who don't know,
the health division within CTA, for many years now,
has been the fastest growing division.
And there are members of the health division
that you'll never see at a booth on the floor here
because there are 361 days a year
where organizations like CTA aren't at CTS
doing lots of other stuff, like policy, advocacy,
working with regulators like the FDA and others.
And I think those partnerships are important,
as well as the partnerships across the industry.
From the consumer,
and from the traditional healthcare side of it.
And, I maybe I was a little harsh,
as we need to get over ourselves.
What we need to do is, like I said,
embrace not just the disruption,
but embrace these non-traditional tech
and innovation companies.
Because healthcare is nearly 20%
of the gross domestic product of the United States.
And we spend more per capita than anybody else.
But it is no secret that our outcomes
are not as good as they should be.
But when you look at how the technology
and the consumer technology industry
has advanced in the last few decades,
they're doing amazing things.
And it does get cheaper and cheaper
to do more amazing things every year.
If we do not listen and if we do not pay attention,
healthcare will get disrupted around us
if we don't participate.
So it's really all of the partnerships,
all the collaboration,
and all the participation that's important.
<v ->Yeah, just to add on,</v>
sometimes I come to conferences and I listen to sessions.
I thought, "Oh yeah, I heard all those things before."
And I don't know if I walk away
remembering anything really meaningful.
And maybe for me,
the big thing in this conversation is the urgency.
And I think we all know the numbers,
but just to highlight them, right?
We think about over half of adults
in the United States are caregivers.
We've actually, even on our own team,
have had some personal tragedies in the family
as they've been trying to figure out
how do they care for their aging parents or,
and sometimes and feeling really frustrated
about their limited ability to do so.
We can think about the shortage,
the workforce shortage in healthcare.
It's, what is it? Two, three million now?
Will be 10 in the next five years. They need help.
Caregivers need help.
And I think people who want to stay at home and age at home,
70% of adults, right?
Aging adults wanna stay at home.
The opportunity is tremendous. The need is very high.
There is tremendous urgency here.
Now, I don't think any of us on stage,
or anyone out there, has quite figured it out.
And I think that it's through collaborations
just as Carlos shared, that we're gonna be able to do this.
So it takes a little bit of humility,
it takes a little bit of let's trust the people around us,
let's work together,
and let's figure out how we can complement each other,
create synergies, what problems can we solve together,
whether it be regulation, or whether it be around
having a very forward approach to the way we communicate
to the general public about what x, y, z technology could do
and how it could help you.
And I think that slowly, we'll start to make progress.
<v ->I'm very aligned with all this.</v>
We've always been very open at Withings at sharing data,
of course, with the consent of the end users.
But we have thousands of partners
that collect data from our devices with their users.
And we're about to reach a million patient
that have been equipped with our devices from care teams.
So partnership has always been extremely important for us.
But I think now we need to think of
how can we partner together on new business models as well.
Because specifically here in the US,
we know quite well how to pay for sick care.
We know how to reimburse the monitoring of patients
that are already sick.
But we don't know how to pay for the patient
that are not sick.
How do we avoid these patients to even become sick?
And that's probably the easiest thing to do.
And that's by being in the room,
that's by this everyday data.
There is just no mechanism today to make this work.
So for us, what's important
is how do we find this forward-thinking partners
that are looking at the tomorrow,
that are looking at how can we help our population
to stay healthy,
and to stay as far away as the hospital as possible.
While of course being connected with care teams,
and getting the care they need when they need that care.
<v ->That's great. Well, we're coming to a close.</v>
I just wanna wrap up a little bit.
Collaboration is key, cooperating in the sandbox,
design thinking.
And I can say your organization,
I've met with you guys this week.
Withings' and ResMed's products I know pretty well.
Design thinking is embedded in them.
And thinking about the user, the end user,
and the patient as the payer, or the caregiver as the payer.
Caregiver's huge, thank you for bringing that up.
Also think about people's drivers of health
and their Maslow's hierarchy of needs.
Clean air, clean water.
Sleep, I'm putting in there, and connectivity.
So to have cellular in a device,
I did not know you had that kind of connectivity.
So we have to assume that in a connected home,
we have connectivity.
Connectivity in terms of the tech,
but connectivity in terms of mental social health.
Social connections from the heart are really key
when we talk about connectivity.
And as we close, and our theme was, the home is health.
I want us to spend 30 seconds in your busy day today
with a prayerful heart and mind
for anyone in Southern California
who's dealing with the tragic fires.
We need to be mindful that there's no home care
without a home.
And that's a presupposition we have to not take for granted.
So everyone, be well, enjoy CES,
and we thank you for coming to share our visions.