<v ->Good afternoon and welcome</v>
to the "Calling from Space Session,"
the last session as part of the space track at CES.
My name is Sumaiya Najarali and I will be your moderator
for today's session.
So before we get started on this conversation,
on direct-to-device connectivity,
I'd like to give our panelists the opportunity
to introduce themselves, a bit about their company's role
in the direct-to-device market,
as well as share some major events,
milestones over the past year
as we reflect on 2024.
So perhaps, Barbee, we could start with you
and then make our way down the line.
<v ->Sure. So thank you, Sumaiya.</v>
It's good to be with you again
after a wonderful show in Paris back in September,
so glad to continue the conversation.
I'm Barbee Ponder, General Counsel
and Vice President of Regulatory Affairs for Globalstar.
Globalstar is a mobile satellite services company.
We've been providing mobile satellite services now
for over two decades.
We own and operate our own constellation
of low-earth-orbit satellites as well
as a global infrastructure of ground stations
around the world that support that constellation.
Importantly, about two years ago
we started providing D2D connectivity
and we've been doing it now successfully in 17 countries.
I'm proud to say that now there are tens of millions
and I'm sure very soon a hundred million people
with Globalstar at their fingertips
for critical communications, you know,
when they are in a rather desperate situation
as quite frankly, we saw recently with our latest,
the past hurricane season.
So, you know, we have used the same spectrum.
Well, I'm sure we'll get into that a little bit,
but 2024 was a very busy year for us.
We're just getting started quite frankly.
We were successful in having the FCC
reauthorize our HIBLEO-4 Constellation
for another 15-year license term
and we'll be launching eight new satellites
later this year to help replenish that constellation.
And finally,
at the end of last year we announced
an additional $1.7 billion investment
that we'll be making in more satellites
and more ground infrastructure
over the next couple of years.
So 2024 was busy.
<v ->Thanks Sumaiya.</v>
Hi, everybody. I'm Tim Last.
I'm the Executive Vice President of Sales
and Marketing at Iridium.
I think about 70% of Barbee's introduction
probably applies to Iridium as well.
If you don't know us,
we are a global mobile satellite services company.
We have a fleet
of about 80 satellites in orbit
in low earth orbit around the world.
We've been in the satellite business for getting on
for 30 years with the current constellation
only being about four or five years old.
And like Barbee's company,
we provide direct-to-device connectivity today,
one of the major changes for Iridium is that we're midway
through the development and launch
of a standard space direct-to-device connectivity.
I think that's what most people are here
to hear about and understand.
We've been a leader in sort of proprietary connectivity
for satellite networks
and we've done that successfully across many major markets,
verticals, geographies, both commercial and government.
And we're excited about the opportunity
to deliver that using more standards-based technology.
For us, it's one of the probably two
or three major capital programs underway
in the company at the moment,
so we're putting our money where our mouth is.
Over the last year,
we've successfully got Iridium's technology embedded
into the next release of 3GPP.
So we will be part of the standards-based
sort of kit of options
that consumer electronics,
chip set companies and the like can use.
Looking forward to 25, we'll be over the air
middle of this year testing
and prototyping and what have you
and we're looking at market launch for our service
by about the first month or two of 2026.
So good to be here.
Good to meet everybody and thanks for inviting us, Sumaiya.
<v ->Thank you, Sumaiya. My name is Parth Trivedi.</v>
I'm the CEO co-founder of Skylo,
which is a global direct-to-device service operator
that connects cellular devices directly over satellite
so that customers never lose coverage.
Skylo wears two hats.
One, we're a technology developer
that builds the underlying infrastructure
that powers the direct-to-device solution
using the 3GPP standards with our radio access network
and our core now installed
and operationalized within half a dozen
different satellite partners that we work with
across more than 10 Earth stations around the world
and integrated with multiple carriers
just as another roaming partner, if you will.
So we play the role of a technology developer
on the one hand and the other role that we play
is of a service operator.
So we operate our service live over four continents,
more than 35 markets.
of devices on our network
and scaling what is now
the world's largest standards-based NTN.
And we're really excited about the ecosystem
that we're building, certifying everything
from the chip set and the module
all the way up to the device.
And 2024 we called out certifications
with Qualcomm's Snapdragon chip set.
We announced partnership with Google
across every Pixel smartphone
and announced a partnership as well with Verizon
so that we can bring this incredible capability
to the consumer, to the enterprises
and all types of use cases in between.
And excited to share some of those stories with you today.
<v ->Great, thank you.</v>
And excited to have you all here as well.
So I think busy defined it very well.
Lots of momentum in the D2D space in 2024.
We saw that on the satellite infrastructure side,
so with some of the companies like AST
and Starlink launching in the past year,
also on the hardware side.
So seeing, you know,
more than 20 phone variants carrying both satellite
and terrestrial compatibility globally.
So as we look forward into 2025, we're really trying to see
how we're getting the market developed
and seeing how we can get services to market.
So with satellite operators, you know,
turning these addressable users
of direct-to-device services into subscribers,
what are some of the benefits and shortfalls
of these go-to market strategies
that US satellite operators,
network providers are adopting, whether it be, you know,
taking a hardware approach or partnering with MNOs.
So perhaps, Tim, if you wanna get started there
and discuss maybe a little bit about Iridium's approach.
<v ->Yeah, sure.</v>
I mean, I don't know that I can comment too much
on the shortfalls or pitfalls.
I mean, I think we are in the very early stages
of development of this fairly nascent market opportunity,
both for, you know, those of us in the satellite industry,
but also for terrestrial companies and OEMs
and chip set companies, anybody that sees the opportunity
to develop and use this type of crossover technology.
You know, we have a particular view
of how best we can go to market
by sort of providing
a vertically integrated networking experience.
We will look and feel like a roaming option
for any MNO in the world that wants
to use our capability and service.
That's important because the, you know,
the least amount of friction you can provide
to the MNOs the more chance they are
of adopting your capability.
But it's also true, I think that, you know,
nobody's gonna be kind of taking the whole market here.
This is gonna be a choice of options
for many of the mobile operators.
We also have a pretty clear strategy
that the market opportunity for Iridium is not only
what you might consider direct-to-consumer devices,
so to handsets, but also in IoT.
For us, IoT has been a strong part of our market growth
for the past 15 years or so.
And while I think the, you know,
the business case and the value proposition
for consumers can sometimes be questioned.
Nobody's paying much
for this kind of capability today,
at least not from a consumer perspective.
It is clear that there's a very compelling use case
and business case for many enterprises
who have been crying out for a connectivity
in places that they can't get to,
whether you be automotive
or oil and gas companies or many
of the other industrial IoT markets.
So I think there's money for everybody in that ecosystem.
It gets tougher in the IoT market
'cause there's less money to go around,
but I think the next several years will reveal,
you know, who's got the right
kind of go-to-market approach
and who may struggle because of, you know, what they control
and what they don't control in that value chain.
So thanks.
<v ->Barbee, did you want to jump in there</v>
and maybe just discuss Globalstar's go-to-market approach,
you know, with partnering with Apple,
but then also the path forward
with the extended MSS network coverage?
<v ->Sure.</v>
So, you know, Globalstar not only, you know,
owns and operates its own constellation of satellites,
but we've developed internally quite a few
of the products that operate over that system.
One of those products we introduced in 2007,
it's a consumer line of messaging devices
called SPOT that has been incredibly successful.
And we've always tried to make a device, you know,
smaller, cheaper, incredibly easy to use,
pull it out of your pocket, push a button,
let your family know regardless of where you are
that you're okay,
or if you're in trouble, push the SOS.
And so for us, when we were looking to,
I think sort of, you know, pioneer a path forward
to direct-to-device, it was a natural fit for us
to partner with a smartphone manufacturer
because we all understood the enormous public benefits
that would be available if we could essentially
shoehorn our technology
and connectivity, you know,
into one of their feature products.
And it took a quite a bit of work,
but we were able to do that.
So, you know, that's how we ended up in market
and now we don't have a go-to-market strategy,
we need a stay-in-market strategy and execute that
and we're gonna continue to invest in our network,
innovate and evolve quite frankly
and expand and make sure that we are able
to continue to provide that level of connectivity
that people want when they're off the grid,
either voluntarily or not,
and at a price point
that they feel comfortable paying.
<v ->I always like to start with the consumer experience</v>
and just by a quick show of hands,
how many of you have an iPhone 14 or above
or a Google Pixel 9?
Got it.
So those who of you who have your hand up,
I want to maybe ask you another follow-up question.
How many of you have tried the satellite demo mode
that is inherent in your device?
Awesome.
I'm glad I saw more hands
versus the last time I did this,
but I think that making a consumer aware
of this capability is step one, right?
It's blatantly present within your device,
now how do you get access to it?
What is the 1G of this look like
when you try and access this non-terrestrial network
for the first time
and how can we make it a predictable user experience?
So that was the starting point
and frankly a lot of the focus for last year
and the year before
was establishing a common baseline for consumers
that they could start to take for granted.
I was in Redwood National Park in California
and texting over satellite with my family
and it was an incredible experience.
But then as we think about the services beyond
that baseline, peer-to-peer services, messaging,
access to a constrained IP connection, et cetera,
those start to look an awful lot like the carrier services
that you're receiving today.
So our approach is being
a complimentary support network
with the carrier being complimentary
to the services that they're providing
to consumers from a 5G perspective
and making this appear
to be minimal change in user behavior
in accessing direct-to-device connectivity
is a huge part of our focus.
Whether that's the work that we do behind the scenes
with Android on the user experience
or whether that's the work that we do with the carriers
around how they present this to the end users.
<v ->And I think that's a good segue into user experience</v>
and a lot of the conversation on what can users expect
to see with satellite direct-to-device connectivity, right?
Are we gonna be able to see
the same broadband-type capabilities?
And that's a lot of the conversation
as that kind of fuels into who's paying for the service.
So how do you as operators, network providers,
intend on managing user expectations
around D2D services?
<v ->I can kick things off maybe.</v>
So, you know, the first thing
is understanding the market really well,
understanding the user really well.
And I wanted to share with you the results
of a survey that we ran
across a thousand Americans over the course of December.
And we asked them
some of the most common questions
about the connectivity challenges that they face
and the insights were quite fascinating.
So two thirds of respondents
of Americans across the country, by the way,
not in any specific location,
two thirds of Americans face connectivity issues
and 20% actually face connectivity issues
on almost a daily basis.
I think the thing that struck me the most
is that a majority of folks faced connectivity issues
in their own neighborhood
or on their commute to work
or to see their friends and family.
So it was a much higher percentage than I thought of.
And the issue is quite real in terms of the pain point
that the frustration that Americans experience
when they don't have reception and connectivity available.
So it's becoming more and more real
around how this gets presented and monetized.
But then you also think about the use cases
to your question of is it, you know,
what are the types of services that consumers care about?
The other question we asked was around exactly that,
what are the use cases that you intend to leverage?
50% of respondents said that their biggest use case
for non-terrestrial networks
on their device was emergency contact.
20% of users after that
said that their biggest use case was navigation,
followed by texting.
And interestingly, social media
and other internet use cases
was less than 5% of respondents.
And the other thing I'll maybe just conclude with
is we are seeing a massive shift
in how content on the internet is consumed.
So where previously you would have gone
and browsed multiple websites to gain an answer
to your question, you now have ChatGPT,
you have Perplexity, you are able to turn
a previously pretty heavy data-intensive experience
into frankly a text-based narrow-band experience
that matters.
That's a very important change
that has happened over the past two years.
And because we're building greenfield networks
that haven't been designed or been built before,
we're able to optimize for these use cases.
What will the next set
of not just peer-to-peer
but also peer-to-AI interactions look like?
So that's what we spend a lot of time also thinking about
<v ->Certainly.</v>
And any other thoughts on managing user expectations
as we discussed different D2D capabilities?
<v ->I think my first comment would be</v>
keep their expectations low
because that's probably where things will start.
I mean, as Parth indicates, initial use cases
and the consumer's pain points
generally speaking are around basic connectivity
and often text-based or very modest data needs.
You know, we've known this from being
in the satellite industry for 25 years
to know how end users can find value
without having endless bandwidth and capability.
That doesn't mean it shouldn't be an aspiration
or a target to aim for,
but it's very different connecting to a satellite
either 35,000 miles away
or traveling at 18,000 miles an hour compared
to connecting to a cell tower
that's two miles down the street.
But there are use cases
which people will definitely pay for,
find value in, even in those modest areas.
You know, the example of texting, the example of, you know,
basic tracking capability, find your friends capability,
these are all things that people will find useful,
particularly in those areas where they have dead spots.
But I think from a quality and customer experience,
you know, it will be different.
You know, we strive, just like Parth does,
to ensure that the customer experience
is as close as possible to what they may have
in their terrestrial use case.
But we also know that sometimes
it's challenging to make that happen
when you're dealing with very different assets
and infrastructure behind the scenes.
<v ->You know, I think we're, at least I'd like to think</v>
that we're changing the public's perception
and their expectations on what it means to be connected.
I think that that the public is going to expect
that when they, you know, pull out their smartphone,
it's going to work regardless of where they are,
regardless of their situation or their predicament.
And regardless of whether there is
or was a terrestrial mobile network that was there
that was to support them.
So I think that, you know, that's where we're heading,
a basic level of connectivity, you know,
at a price point that that is affordable.
And from there, you know, we move forward
with further work, further innovation and service.
But I saw a report this morning,
I think it's the first public report
of a rescue via satellite in Japan.
Japan was the 17th country added
to the emergency SOS via satellite family of countries
where it's now available.
And I think the first report was this morning
and I think, you know, it's just, you know,
people don't expect to be in a situation
where they're gonna need satellite connectivity
but they want it there when it's an emergency.
So...
<v ->Yeah, absolutely.</v>
And I think as satellite connectivity, you know,
becomes more integrated with terrestrial networks,
we're looking at revenue-generating opportunities here.
So what are some of the key
revenue-generating opportunities you're focusing on
and how are you going to monetize that?
So really trying to see is justifying the business case here
and curious also to know from an MNO perspective,
so how they can be added to this plan
of also expanding the services and then profiting from that.
So you know, so far we're looking more at the freemium model
or it's embedded in your phone.
How is the path going forward with monetizing D2D services?
<v ->Maybe I'll try to answer this one.</v>
I think many and varied is the straight answer.
We're building a capability
just like our current network service today,
which will serve a really wide variety
of different use cases, vertical markets, customer types.
The consumers, one of them clearly,
and there'll be a certain expectation there
and it's likely for most people
that that experience will be managed through their carrier,
their MNO, their cellular provider.
So you'll be bundled in as part of that package
or part of that monthly fee.
Maybe it'll be a, you know,
a small premium to have that capability.
Maybe you get it because you buy the premium device,
maybe the company a bit like the Apple example,
they provide it free of charge for some period of time.
Somebody somewhere will have to pay
in order to monetize what the investment
that companies like ours are making in that,
you know, behind the scenes capability.
Once you get into the IoT market, it varies hugely
'cause there's so many different use cases and capability
and business models that are being supported, you know.
Certainly there's an awful lot
of very low cost industrial IoT
and if you're not within, you know,
pennies of that expectation, even on cellular,
the satellite industry won't be an option
for many of these use cases.
It doesn't matter that you are filling in the dead spots,
if you can't get within spitting distance
of their cost expectation,
you're still not gonna make the market.
There's other examples where there is an appetite
to pay more for connectivity, whether it be backup
or, you know, for dead zones
and those will be the ones that, you know,
companies like ours will all be trying to mine first.
Where can we find the companies
that are prepared to pay for that capability?
We already do it today with our proprietary network.
The market just gets a lot bigger
once you're dealing with standards-based technology
and it becomes much easier for those companies
to simply add you into the mix.
So...
<v ->Yeah, I would say that our approach</v>
is where wholesale B2B service operator,
so we don't go to the end user directly,
but we have a nuanced go-to-market approach as it relates
to consumer as one vertical,
as automotive, as another vertical,
and IoT or enterprise as a third vertical.
And each of these has its own nuances as it relates
to the type of ecosystem that you have to activate
in order to successfully bring a user online
that looks very different across these three segments.
So as an example, in the IoT segment,
we have to work with a lot of module makers
and, you know, folks who are building these end devices,
get them certified on Skylo's network.
We run the industry's only certification program for NTN
using the 3GPP standards.
So that's a large part of the supporting work that we do
before carriers and MVNOs are able to realize the benefit
of dual-mode connectivity on these IoT devices.
Then you have to also educate them on, hey,
here's the developer experience that you want,
here's what you can expect.
To Tim's point on setting expectations,
you want developers to be able to access this new mode
of connectivity much in the same way
that they accessed cellular.
What can they take for granted?
What are the new things that they have to learn
or set expectations around for their users?
So that's the IoT market for the automotive market.
As you can imagine, we work with chip set companies
but also TCU vendors,
folks who make the Sharkfin antenna in your car
all the way up to the carrier.
And again, there's different types of services
that these three markets are interested in
relative to each other.
And consumer market I think gets a lot of oxygen
because of the fact that it's so near
and dear to the device that's already in your pocket.
But for that market, it's again, entirely carrier-led
with supporting OEMs setting the baseline for connectivity
that you can access.
<v ->Certainly.</v>
So we talk a lot about upside potential strategies
with go-to-market, spectrum, momentum in the industry,
monetization now, kinda looking at challenges in the market.
So what are some of the biggest issues
that you think will break or make the market
and result in the success of D2D as everyone sees it?
Barbee, you wanna kickstart us off
with some of the challenges that you see?
<v ->I guess, you know,</v>
Globalstar and Iridium are pioneers in MSS,
we've been doing this a while
and I think one for us, one of the challenges is,
you know, where are we not, right?
We have mobile satellites,
MSS spectrum, mobile satellite services spectrum
is ITU-allocated, globally harmonized.
And so we were able
to serve very large regions of the Earth quickly
with our capabilities.
I think for us, you know,
one of the challenges is to continuously open up new markets
and new regions to our services
that historically have have not been perhaps as welcome.
And so that for us will be, I think,
a major focus over, you know, the next couple of years
as we move forward with, you know,
our D2D connectivity and an enormous amount of,
you know, public benefit
that comes with that to open,
quite frankly, countries that that
we have not been able to serve so far.
<v ->I think Barbee touched on regulatory,</v>
I'll perhaps build on that
and say that it takes a village to go to market.
In telecom, it really takes a huge amount
of work to build an ecosystem
that results in a predictable,
reliable experience for the end user.
And doing that is challenging.
You know, you're getting multiple different behemoths
in line to activate a solution
with a particular standard is not easy.
And the second thing I'll say is that usage
is very closely tied to user experience.
So as an example, how can we make access
to even a basic service like messaging
as frictionless as possible?
How can we end up, in fact, it's part of our roadmap,
how can we end up in a future scenario
where the phone rings while it's in your pocket
as you're in your car driving at highway speeds?
Enabling that requires a ton of work.
And of course there's technical challenges involved,
but I feel,
and given my experience in this so far,
working with the ecosystem
and bringing a predictable user experience online
that you can take for granted is super difficult.
<v ->Tim, any anything to add on to that?</v>
<v ->I think one of the challenges we have as an industry</v>
is to not oversell the opportunity.
I mean, you know, we obviously want want to encourage
as many, you know, participants in this ecosystem
that feel they can get value
from having satellite connectivity as part of the solution.
But we shouldn't be overselling that
because the, you know, there are certain capabilities
that are currently out of reach of satellite operators,
the technology that's available today,
That doesn't mean you can't dream
and try and aspire to something,
but I think having some realism about what capabilities
and use cases are available is kind of important
because, you know, we can burn a lot of goodwill
and, you know, a lot of reputation in the market
by promising the earth
and only delivering knee-high level services.
I mean, beyond that, I think spectrum broadly
for the industry, it's the same challenge
in the terrestrial world.
Spectrum will continue to be, I say, a challenge.
It'll be a challenge because A,
there's never enough of it to go round.
B, not every spectrum is equal to each other.
Different capabilities, different services are possible.
And there's also a lot of different competing use cases
for that spectrum, even within the satellite world.
Companies today are trying to find ways
to monetize that spectrum
and what today might be a apparently attractive D2D use case
tomorrow might become very attractive
to monetize in a different way.
So I think, you know, we have to figure out fairly quickly
how to monetize it confidently,
otherwise that spectrum is gonna get repurposed
into other things, other use cases, other industries.
So...
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
And before we carry forward to some of the other topics,
just gonna give the audience an opportunity
to ask any questions that they may have for our panelists.
Yep. In the back.
I could either pass you the mic
or if you can project loud enough then..
<v Attendee>Yeah, I'm wondering, you know,</v>
right now it sounds like, you know,
the focus is providing text
or other low data uses,
but eventually it will seem like consumers will dream
about (indistinct) faster connectivity.
Will the result simply be that the satellites
will need to get bigger and bigger?
Is that sort of an inevitable,
you know, outlook if you're looking
out three, four, or five years?
<v ->I don't know that bigger and bigger</v>
is necessarily the case.
I mean certainly there are some aspects
of satellite technology.
I mean, there are operators today
that have, you know, more legacy technology
that is not as capable.
There are new companies, companies like AST Space
that are promoting very large antenna arrays
that can make up for some of the shortcomings
of trying to connect to cellular devices.
One of the things that, you know, you know,
while this device in your pocket may seem to be amazing
and fantastic and wonderful,
for, you know, engineers,
and probably you guys will agree with this in,
you know, they're really crappy
at connecting to things a long way away.
You know, it's really difficult
to close a reliable high-quality connection
with the quality of antennas and devices
that are installed in some of these things.
What makes it low cost and so competitive
and easy in the terrestrial world
equally makes it a challenging connecting
to assets like satellites.
So I think some of that will be mitigated by different,
newer, bigger satellites maybe
and some of it will be other technologies
that evolve other, technologies within the core network.
I mean, the good news is that most of this transition
or, you know, appetite around
to direct-to-device is persuading much
of the satellite industry to move much
of its core infrastructure
more onto a standard space footing.
If you go back 20 or 30 years,
all of the satellite companies in the world,
pretty much most of them had a load
of proprietary technology all the way through their network,
all the way from the core right to the edge,
and that's no longer the case,
including companies like Iridium.
So I think that can only bring benefits of integration.
Whether it really closes the gap
to that consumer experience,
I think it's gonna take a little while to work through.
<v ->Any other questions from the audience?</v>
Yep, we have one in the back.
<v Attendee>800 megahertz, and this is really realistic</v>
to think of 5G as, especially, like, C band, you know,
you push a 4.3 kilohertz circuit (speaking faintly)
I mean, I can't make that circuit work.
I don't know if you guys can.
<v ->Happy to trade notes on that offline, sir.</v>
<v Attendee>I'm just gonna say, I'm the same way-</v>
<v ->We operate with a fade margin of seven</v>
or 10 DB depending on the device,
so it's not a flaky connection, you know?
When you use it outdoors,
you obviously don't try this when you're deep
inside your garage underground.
But again,
setting the right expectations is important
if you can do that.
Yeah, no, would love to trade notes after this. Thank you.
<v ->Yeah, go ahead.</v>
<v Attendee>I'm curious about the automotive industry.</v>
So I think we're talking maybe 2026 at the soonest for NTN
to be available potentially in a car somewhere,
but how do you see that unfolding?
Do you see the carriers controlling that implementation
or do you see the wireless,
I'm sorry, the satellite industry
engaging directly with the automators?
<v ->Happy to take a quick crack at it.</v>
I think that the things
that play out in automotive are very similar
to the way things play out in consumer with a lag.
So I think you should expect to see a similar rollout
as you have seen for consumer handsets
in that the first innings of this might very well be
with a baseline that the OEM helps set
so that they can set an expectation
with their drivers and passengers that hey, you're covered
with a certain basic element irrespective
of the market in which you buy the car
or the truck, you know,
if you're talking commercial vehicle.
Then the next innings is about those enhanced services,
which, frankly, I'm an automaker,
I don't really care about the services revenue that accrue
from a service that an MNO
in that country is much more adequately equipped to sell,
distribute, and support than the OEM.
So I think that's the way it see it play out.
<v Attendee>All right, quick follow up,</v>
any thoughts on when a regulatory requirement
for next gen 911 or next gen eCall might require
satellite connectivity in parts?
<v ->You know, it's interesting,</v>
and thank you for bringing that up.
If you look at the regulations in Europe
as an example, they're very tight.
So to meet some of those SLAs,
it becomes incredibly important
to have a high nines reliable network connection,
especially when you're doing cross-border 3PL.
In India, as an example,
there's a regulation called AIS 140
that applies to logistics, tracking devices, and trucks,
which is also quite stringent
around in enhancing the level of visibility,
observability, and safety.
So I do think that carriers around the world
are going to take satellite
more and more seriously as a part of the total offering
to the 3PL providers.
<v ->Yeah, I agree.</v>
I mean, it's more of a regional issue.
That one, I mean, eCall in Europe
has been developing a lot faster,
even though it's developing at a fairly slow pace
compared to the rest of the world.
Similar to past Indian example, Brazil for example, today,
even prior to NTN technology,
Brazil is a pretty fertile market for satellite connectivity
because of the relatively poorer coverage
and the combination of regulatory action,
insurance companies, and that kind of thing.
So we're gonna see these sort of different pockets play out,
I think, and some of them will be a great use case
for satellite, which will help pull this along.
I think the one thing with automotive is true
that I think the OEM in the, you know,
consumer automotive world will try
to control experience as much as possible.
So regardless of how they procure the connectivity
in the back end, they will be controlling that experience.
That will be very different in industrial markets.
Industrial markets usually start out with a myriad
of aftermarket solutions first 'cause they can prove it out
and move a lot faster than an OEM ever can.
You don't get quite the same aftermarket
kind of experience these days in automotive.
It's not like people are buying GPS devices
and stick them in their cars other than their smartphone.
So I think it'll take a while for that
to really take hold, but it's a market that I do think
is still a significant one for this sort
of satellite direct-to-device, for sure.
<v ->Thank you. Thanks for the answer.</v>
So I think that actually takes us very close
to the end of our session.
So I'd like to thank you all for attending.
I'd like to give a special thanks to our panelists
for the insightful discussion,
of course our audience members for their questions,
and I hope you enjoy the rest of your time at CES.
Thank you.