<v ->I guess, I wanna start</v>
with how many of you out there have a wearable?
Are wearing a wearable right now?
Could you raise your hands?
That's to be expected.
I think what we're seeing is that wearables
are an increasingly important part
of the digital health landscape.
And being at CES,
we're talking about consumer health,
specifically consumer-focused wearables.
But where I come from
and I work for health leaders,
sorry, I look for that connection
between the consumer
and the healthcare provider, the health system,
and the hospital executive,
and the doctor and the nurse.
So the conversation here today
is going to kind of branch into that territory.
We're gonna start,
and I'm gonna allow my wonderful panelists
here to introduce themselves
and talk a little bit about the wearables
that they have.
And then we're gonna talk about perhaps
how this area of digital health,
how these wearables might be introduced
in remote patient monitoring
or hospital home or some of the other
programs that we're seeing as healthcare
moves out of the hospital
and the doctor's office and more into the home.
So what I want to do is just start,
my first question is gonna be to allow
yourselves to talk a little bit
about your company's
and your wearables,
and tell me a little bit about
how you see the wearable market evolving.
So let's start on this end.
<v ->Good morning, everyone.</v>
First of all, thanks to folks here at CES
for organizing a digital health track.
I was excited to see the digital health track
and all the great conversations
that have been going on.
My name is Praveen Raja.
I lead digital health R&amp;D
at Samsung Research Center in the U.S.
Our company, as you know, manufacturers
and delivers a whole bunch of wearables
and services associated with them.
Smart rings, we have obviously our phones,
we have our smart watches
and a whole bunch of devices at home
that you don't think of as health devices.
But these are very important things,
like even our refrigerator
and our TVs are increasingly health devices
and they provide a lot in terms
of helping people stay healthy
and eat the right foods, exercise,
and live a stress-free life with wellbeing.
So our team develops all the features
and devices for Samsung products.
<v ->Hi, I am Alexi Coffey.</v>
I'm the VP of product at WHOOP.
We are the human performance
and health company that has a wearable
health and fitness coach that helps people
reach their goals.
Super excited to be in this conversation today.
Thank you so much.
I think it's a really exciting time
to be talking about wearables and health.
At WHOOP, I lead our product innovation
and have brought features like stress monitor,
pregnancy insights, our AI coach
into the forefront.
And I think there's this amazing shift
that's happening in consumer health today
where people really wanna understand
their bodies, they really value this daily
relationship, this daily data loop that they get.
And I think that we're seeing this moment
where there's an increased conversation
of how can we collaborate across wearables,
across healthcare to ultimately
deliver better health outcomes
for the consumer, for the member.
And so it's just an exciting time
and grateful to be in conversation with you all.
<v ->Good morning, everyone.</v>
My name is Scott Burgett, I'm from Garmin.
I lead our Garmin health engineering team
as well as drive our biosensor roadmap worldwide.
So if it's on the bottom of the watch
as a biosensor, that's a roadmap that I manage.
So I'm very, very in great depth
involved in not only the sensors,
but the applications of all the biosensor
data and the watches.
I'm sure you're familiar with Garmin.
We make wearable devices that go from
low-cost to very expensive,
and we are really passionate about making
a wearable that people wanna wear,
it's essential and provides the best data.
And I agree this is a great time
for digital health,
we are really at the point
where the adoption is going to go up
and we really see a lot of opportunity
in the use of wearable data in many ways,
many applications, certainly in terms
of remote patient monitoring,
population health, things like that.
So I'm really excited to be here
and thank you for having me
and looking forward to chatting.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
So I'm Olivier, Olivier Ropars.
I lead a consumer
bio wearable division for Abbot.
And so this is a new division
that Abbot created a few years ago.
And the whole idea was to bring medical grade
technology invented within Abbot
to the consumer space
and putting this technology straight
into the hands of consumers.
And the strong belief here is the technology,
especially with AI,
and we'll talk about AI in a minute,
is ready to help people
really take care of their health
and be much more proactive
on how they manage their health.
So we launched our first product last year
in 2024 in the UK and the U.S.,
it's a continuous glucose monitor
dedicated to the consumer.
Consumers can buy it anywhere,
no need for a prescription.
And we focus on glucose as a first product
for us because glucose is probably
the most important biomarker of metabolic health
and also poor glucose control has been associated
to the prominence of most chronic diseases.
So we believe that putting
this tool in people's hands,
they can improve their glucose management
and avoid chronic disease, which is really
what we're all about here,
is keeping people healthy much longer.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
Okay, we talk a lot about patient
care management, the empowered consumer,
the idea that these devices, these wearables
are used by consumers to manage their own health.
Now we had settled on some questions
ahead of time, I'm gonna jump
around a little bit just to kind
of spice things up a little bit,
but I do want to get into the idea
that as you had mentioned,
collaboration between care providers
and consumers on using these types of devices
on their health.
So I'm gonna go down to you Olivier with this one
and just kind of continue the conversation
or what you had just said.
How do you get healthcare providers
to pay more attention to wearables,
to become interested or to want to use
wearables in remote patient monitoring
programs or other clinical programs?
<v ->Yeah, so I mean, first,</v>
I always say like most of our customers
have bought the product directly
and are using it on their own.
The whole design of the product
made it very easy for people
to understand the data, the insights,
and take actions on it.
So this is a self-contained product
dedicated for the user only.
However, while working with also primary care
physicians and nutritionists in the UK
and in the U.S. as well,
and we see a lot of value in this
and they see a lot of benefits in working
with a sensor.
So I'll give you two examples.
So on the physician side, what we see is,
it saves them a lot of time
and improve the quality of care.
So number one, for patients who have any
kind of anxieties or concerns
about their glucose level,
weight management, incidents of diabetes
or pre-diabetes in their family,
and they're concerned about, you know,
maybe it could happen to them as well.
The doctor will direct them to a lingo center.
And what it does is already
all the concerns about meal planning,
nutrition, what should I eat,
what is good nutrition for me,
what I should do differently in the evening
versus the morning and so forth.
All of this is taken care by the application.
So it simplifies
the interaction with a physician.
On top of that, now the main interaction
you have with the physician is only
for critical medical matters.
So it saves time
and in 15 minutes, physicians
don't have time to answer this question.
So it's a time-saving for the physicians.
For nutritionist,
what we've seen is they've embedded
a sensor in their treatment plan.
So they use a sensor to establish a baseline,
a data-driven baseline,
and then they also use a data
to demonstrate the value
of their recommendations, which drive
therefore adherence to the plan
and better patient outcome ultimately.
So both population, nutritionists
and physicians, I've seen a better patient
outcome by working with a sensor
like a glucose monitor that we have.
So we didn't really know
how the healthcare professional will react
when we put this product straight
into the hand of the consumers,
but in fact, they've embraced it
and we see them promoting it
to their patients quite frequently, in fact.
<v Eric>Okay.</v>
<v ->I just wanna jump in</v>
and add just a little bit to what you said,
Olivier, I feel like we are thinking
about the world in two different ways.
We're saying there's a healthcare segment
and a consumer segment.
<v Olivier>Yes.</v>
<v ->I'm not sure there's such a distinction</v>
and I think the distinction is eroding
and I think Abbott Lingo is an example
of that, as you're saying.
I think we demonstrated here, you know,
in our booths, there are two booths here,
Samsung main booth and a booth with an ARP,
a concept that we call, CareHub,
where we're showing how these
two worlds are coming together.
So for example, as a consumer,
you don't have two different worlds.
You're only trying to manage your health
and your wellbeing and meet your health goals.
Sometimes, you do that on your own,
sometimes, you do that with your doctor
and usually both these worlds are together,
right, so that's what we are enabling.
So increasingly, there's a trend
for these two worlds to combine,
for example, the data that you see
within wearable data that you see
on your smartphones from your wearables
can now easily go to your doctor.
And the other way around as well,
we launched a few months ago,
a way in which you can get your medical records
from your doctor, all your health records
directly into Samsung Health.
So you can see in one place
both your Samsung Health data
as well as, your data from your doctor.
It's not just seeing data either,
it's really about getting better.
So for example, if a doctor said,
"Hey, I want you to take this medication
three times a day for six weeks
or eight weeks or a year,"
you need some way to manage that.
Your doctor's not with you all the time.
So we have tools now to say,
"Okay, here's what your doctor wanted you to do,
you can list those medications in one place
from your medical records,
we know what your medications are,
we know when you need to take them.
We will help you stay on track
and get better."
So that's how the two worlds,
I think are coming together.
And in the CareHub concept we talked about,
if there's a flag,
if there's some risks that we detect,
let's say, we detect a risk
for sleep apnea from our wearables,
or we notice the irregular heart rhythm,
you can simply click a button,
connect to a caregiver, your healthcare provider
or some other healthcare provider
and say, "Hey, what's going on with me?
Can you help me?"
So we are seeing these two worlds coming
together in that way in terms
of a whole suite of services,
integration of data,
understanding what may be happening
with you, following your doctor's recommendations,
getting help when you need it.
I think it's a exciting period.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
Now Scott and Alexi,
a lot of these devices,
a lot of these wearables are focused
on the health and the fitness industry,
the health and fitness uses,
health and wellness.
How do you move from or how do you
pitch these types of wearables
to clinicians who are looking
for clinical outcomes?
<v ->Go ahead.</v>
<v ->Well, I think what we're finding, right,</v>
is that so much of health comes
from the daily choices we make every day.
And so you can't look at health
and healthcare if you're not looking at sleep,
if you're not looking at fitness,
if you're not looking at managing stress
and understanding, you know, the daily choices,
how much alcohol you're consuming, et cetera,
impact your wellbeing.
And so I think people are realizing
that when we are looking at driving
behavior change, which is something
that we haven't really figured out yet,
50% of premature deaths are coming
or linked to modifiable behaviors
like improved sleep,
improved exercise, reduced stress.
And so I think wearables with this daily loop,
this relationship we have with our members,
people that wear WHOOP, they wake up
with WHOOP, they go to sleep with WHOOP.
And we're playing this really
important role in their lives to help them
stay accountable because it's really hard
to drive behavior change.
Like we might be motivated humans,
but we have a lot of things we're trying to do.
And so it's hard to keep health top of mind.
And so you might have people that are,
for example, going to their doctor's office
and they're finding out that they
have high cholesterol
or they have some other concerning result
and they're being told,
"Hey, go improve these things."
Well, the moment they leave,
where are they going for support?
And so I think what we're finding
is that people are using WHOOP
and other wearables to drive that behavior
change and then they're going back
to their doctor and they're saying,
"Wow, you've made a
lot of progress in this time."
And so I think in the future,
we need to see a lot more collaboration
so that that's such a seamless experience
for the end consumer.
<v ->Yeah, Alexi, I totally agree with that.</v>
It's really interesting because
I believe traditional medicine was episodic.
You went to the doctor,
you got your blood pressure,
you know, you had a blood draw
and you got, you know, a lipid profile.
Wearables create mountains of data
all day, every day.
Now what do you do with that?
So, you know, we create lots of metrics,
body battery, stress, we measure your sleep
that you can use yourself to, you know,
keep track of your behavior
and your wellness state.
But I think the challenge
that we're at right now is what does
the clinician do with this mountain of data?
You show up at your doctor's office
and say, "Here's the last six months
of my stress data."
They don't know what to do with that, right?
So the intersection of the wearable data
and the clinician is still evolving
right now because I've seen it both ways.
I've talked to doctors who are like,
"I don't care what that says,
it's not a medical device, you know,
it doesn't have a 510(k)."
And I've gone to doctors
and showed them an ECG strip
from a Garmin wearable,
and they immediately read it
and said, "Yep, this is premature atrial
contractions, this is AFib."
I've seen both sides.
And so I think the challenge here is,
you know, Alexi mentioned that people adhere,
they wear these devices
because they see such great benefit,
so they're modifying their own behavior,
but when they get to the doctor,
I think there's still something that needs
to be done to process this data,
create something that's easily digestible
for a clinician to look at
and give them give you insights about,
okay, here's some ideas about how to improve.
So it's really an interesting thing
and as Praveen said, giving that data
to the doctor is happening
and then getting your doctor to pay
attention to it, that's another challenge.
<v ->If I can add a little bit more, I think,</v>
you know, one of the things that I find
really encouraging is we hear all
these stories from members, things like,
you know, "I understood what my regular data
looks like, I noticed this unusual pattern,
I took action and I got some medical help,
and my cardiologist said that,
WHOOP saved my life."
And so I think when we start to have people,
you know, that are going
to the healthcare system saying,
"Hey, like there's something in my data,
please look at it."
And they have these amazing experiences
and they find out
they're about to have a heart attack
and they can get the care they need.
That starts really like creating this shift
where we start to say,
"Okay, this is really important,
we need to collaborate better."
But we know that there's other people
that go there
and they don't get that enriched conversation,
their wearable data is not fully understood.
And even for wearables
that have medically cleared features,
we know that sometimes that is taking people
that wouldn't have been screened before,
sending them to the healthcare
to try to get a consultation.
And we're just overburdening
an already overburdened system.
And so I think we have to really figure
that out because ultimately,
the consumer needs a better
experience and can't feel lost there.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
Here, we've talked about a lot of the benefits
of wearables, let's talk a little bit
about why doctors right now are not
using wearables or they're not collaborating.
What are the barriers right now
to clinical acceptance?
<v ->Let me take that real quick.</v>
I feel like a doctor's not always paid
to read wearable data, okay.
So there's a payer
or there is a reimbursement issue, okay.
So a doctor's not gonna take their time
to look at your wearable data,
if they're not gonna be reimbursed for that.
So one of the things that's happening right now
is we're in the evidence gathering phase
for wearables where we are gathering evidence
to show that use of a wearable
improves an outcome, saves money.
Somebody who has diabetes,
they have way less care costs
because they use a wearable.
So we're in that evidence gathering phase.
The next step is for the payers of the world
to say, "Yeah, this works.
This is gonna be a treatment
we're gonna be reimbursed for."
And then the doctor can say,
"Yeah, bring it on.
I'll read your data,
I'll prescribe a wearable digital therapy,"
and they'll be reimbursed for it.
So that's where we are now
and we're going to get there.
The data is really indisputable.
I think it's just a matter of getting it done.
<v ->I am a lot more optimistic about this.</v>
I see them using wearable, I mean,
every doctor we've talked to,
every nutritionist as I mentioned earlier,
they embrace the wearable.
What the doctors don't have
is a lot of time per patient, right?
There is a epidemic of chronic diseases
in this country, in every developed economy,
90% of healthcare expenditures is dedicated
to chronic disease management.
Doctors have 15 minutes per patient,
it gets very hard to get a doctor.
I moved to the Bay area six months ago.
I'm still looking for that doctor
that will accept new patients, right?
So they want to save time.
And so they see a lot of value in the sensors,
but we have a responsibility as industry players
to make sure that we're not creating anxiety
with the user and that we're integrating
our knowledge with their knowledge
of the patients.
So what Praveen was talking about,
like this is very much,
wearable needs to be an extension
of healthcare providers.
So all the minor issues,
all the minor concerns can be taken care
by the wearable, the app and so forth.
And then you save time for the practitioners
to focus on exactly what matters the most.
So I'm very optimistic about it.
I've been very pleased to see the reaction
of doctors and practitioners.
So I think this is, well,
definitely the right direction.
<v ->Just if I could add just a tiny bit.</v>
When I was at J&amp;J,
we did a study with physicians to say,
"How can they consume digital health easily?"
What we found is that when you sit
and you watch a physician
and a patient visit, it's only a 15 minute visit,
as Olivier said, but the first five,
seven minutes sometimes is taken up
by asking people how they're doing at home.
"Hey, how are you sleeping?
How are you eating?
Are you exercising, right?
Is there stress in your life?"
Because those four things I mentioned
that we internally at Samsung call,
four pillars affect almost
every chronic condition,
makes every chronic condition worse.
And as a physician, you wanna understand
that beyond that, you wanna understand
other questions that doctor ask
in those few minutes is,
"Are you taking your medications?
Is it helping?
Are your symptoms better?
Are you having side effects?"
So we can answer all those questions
for physicians because we know
how patients have done at home
for the 90 days on average between visits.
So it's our job to summarize that
for the doctor quickly.
So if they have 30 seconds,
before they walk into a patient,
we need to be able as a industry
to summarize that and say,
"Hey, this is what's happened at home
for the last 90 days.
Medication taking is at 75%.
These medications have these side effects.
Patient is not sleeping well."
Summarize, and then they will then find value
in that because you've just saved them
the first five or seven minutes.
That's the path forward.
And that, I think, the kind
of tools that we're trying to build.
<v ->Yeah, you mentioned a reimbursement,</v>
it's a huge issue because
we talk about wearables, the worried well.
The ones that are tracking their health data
and talking to their doctor about that data,
they're not the ones we need to worry about.
The larger population out there
are not tracking their health data
and they're not worried about their health data,
they should be worried.
They are part of a much larger population
that really would benefit from wearables,
if they were introduced to wearables
or if they were convinced to use the wearables
and really, that's the Medicare population.
And unless CMS, which is notoriously slow
in reimbursing new technology,
starts supporting wearables,
it's gonna be a challenge to really
move the needle on chronic care
management and others.
And you know, are there different methods
for engaging with that type of population?
<v ->Well, I think that the way you do it is,</v>
you just make a wearable that people wanna wear.
We were talking in the speaker's lounge,
I was talking with Alexi,
once people put on their wearable,
their Garmin, their WHOOP, or whatever,
a lot of them, they get hooked on it,
they never take it off.
They look at their data
every morning after they sleep.
And so if we can just get people, you know,
introduced to it, we find that they keep wearing
it and it changes behavior.
And so how do we reach all of those people?
I don't know, better advertising,
better marketing, but it starts
with a really good wearable experience.
It has to have good sensors,
has to have a really good app
and it has to engage people.
And you know, one of the things
that we have found in the use of Garmin devices
and like clinical research
is that adherence is good.
People start wearing it
and they finish the study wearing it.
They don't fall out.
And I think that's really strong evidence
that people find value in it.
And that if we could get more people to wear it,
we would see, you know, improved outcomes.
<v ->I totally agree that, you know,</v>
it all goes back to the consumer experience.
Is this something that you want to wear 24/7,
what else do you wear 24/7?
Maybe, a wedding ring,
but it's such a high bar.
And so I think you have to create this seamless,
enjoyable experience that feels really rewarding.
And at the same time, I think, you know,
we're in this evolution where wearables
were once worn by people
that were into biohacking
or had very specific conditions
or we're seeing just this proliferation
of people figure out that's a really
important part of their life
and they like that empowerment.
And I think this is also aligned with,
we need to continue
to make wearables more accessible.
So for WHOOP, we have a 30-day free trial.
And I think if you've never worn a wearable
before or if you've always wondered
what it's like to wear something like WHOOP,
it's way easier to just try it,
to understand, you know,
how well do you actually sleep?
Do you get as much exercise
as you think you do, you know,
how do you feel when you're starting your day?
And so I think continuous
business model innovation's really important
to make this accessible to more people.
And so that it's not just something
that pro athletes wear.
And we've really been on this journey
where it's like the best athletes in the world
wear WHOOP, but also people that just wanna
be a better leader, a better parent,
a better human, they wanna feel good for longer.
And you know,
we need to bring that to more people.
I fully agree, there's an accessibility
thing that's really important.
<v ->Scott, I just wanted to add,</v>
'cause you talked about, you know,
what's the incentive for physicians, et cetera.
I know, we talked about there being a lack
of reimbursement, but there is some reimbursement
and we should recognize that, right?
There's remote patient monitoring codes
and certain guidelines for monitoring
patients remotely using wearables
and there's reimbursement.
It's just that it's not always
well known in the physician population.
And they're not well-equipped in a clinic setting
to provide all the requirements
or to meet all the requirements
for remote patient monitoring
and therefore, there's a bit of friction,
but there are some reimbursement pathways.
<v ->There is, yes.</v>
Remote physiological monitoring,
I think is what CMS describes
it as a therapeutic monitoring as well.
Sometimes, the hoops you have to jump through
to get those reimbursements is a little bit
too daunting as well.
<v Praveen>Yes.</v>
<v ->We're getting down to 15 minutes left</v>
and I knew this was gonna happen.
I mean, I've given up on the questions, totally.
We can continue this conversation all day long.
I want to talk a little bit about AI
and about how wearables are going to evolve.
Where do you see this platform
expanding or you know,
what other wearables are we gonna see
out there in the new future?
And how is AI, which is everywhere,
which is in every single conversation here,
how is that going
to affect the wearables industry?
<v ->So I'm very bullish about wearable,</v>
obviously, as the four of us, I suspect.
We already know wearables can drive
behavioral change toward healthier habits.
I remember my dad 20 years ago,
at the beginning of the step trackers
will go for a walk after dinner.
I was making fun of him.
He wanted to close his 10,000 steps.
Now I do the same,
which is a healthy habit as well, right?
We see with glucose monitoring for the consumer,
not just for people with diabetes,
they change the way they eat.
You know, they stop the carbs
that don't suit them, they focus on proteins,
leafy greens and so forth.
We see it because they can see the impact
right away in real time on their watch.
So it's already happening,
it's already changing behaviorals.
I think the power of AI
and I think this is the right time
to go hard on wearable.
The power of AI is twofold.
One, it has a power of simplifying the complex.
So it thrives on big data.
Trying to understand,
like for us is a glucose graph,
like what does that mean?
Your glucose going up and down all the time.
Most of it is nothing to worry about.
Some of them is something you should focus
and try to change your behavior around it.
So being able to identify the part
of your glucose volatility that matters
versus not is part of AI right there.
Another part of AI is,
it brings the whole medical expertise
of the world literally into your pocket.
So you're working basically with a physician
and the behavioral psychologist
right in your pocket,
trying to help you to develop better habits.
So that's very unique.
And while we're trying to do it already now
without AI is clunky, right?
So with AI, it becomes much more personalized,
much smoother and so forth.
So I'm very, very excited about this,
primarily for behavioral change
because I mean, I think you mentioned Alexi,
like 50% causes of death is avoidable.
I think 80% of chronic diseases
are caused by lifestyle,
not DNA, lifestyle, not DNA.
So everything is avoidable
and it's much easier to change behavior
early on in life than later on.
Like I prefer to, you know,
optimize by 10% in my 20s if I knew
that rather than waiting in my 50s
and now I need to do a 180 degree
change in my way of living, right?
So the more we can drive behavioral change,
the more we can lower chronic diseases,
the more we can free up capacity in hospitals
and so forth and the more impact
we can have on the associated basis.
So I think AI is the right time
to bring it into it.
Now, we have a huge challenge
as industry players going forward
because what the future of wearable is not
is 13 sensors in your body
is 13 notifications every 10 minutes
with different recommendations
on what you need to do
that will drive more anxiety,
more cost to the healthcare system
and so forth.
So our responsibilities is to simplify
all this, to integrate
not only amongst ourselves to create like,
you know, a source of truth for your health
because your health is not just one metric
or the other, it's a sum of all those
metrics put together, then integrate
with the healthcare system to have a continuum.
So one is the extension of the user,
the two should work very well together
like Praveen was mentioning.
So I think this is on us
to make it very, very easy for users
to engage with those wearable
and connect with their physicians as well.
<v ->I agree with so much</v>
of what you just said, Olivier.
I think, you know, there's a couple of things
that we're gonna see as wearables
really cemented themselves
into people's daily lives.
We just wanna make
that as frictionless as possible, right?
So continuous improvements in battery life,
simplicity in form factor,
the ability to make it your own
so WHOOP, you can change your band,
you can wear WHOOP on your body
and your bra, in your underwear,
on your bicep.
And just this ability to integrate
into people's lives because people understand
the value of measuring every heartbeat.
With AI, I think we're gonna continue
to see this hyper-personalization.
So what is your best next move
based on your data today in this moment?
And it's gonna have to simplify
'cause it's not just about what you track,
like that's table stakes, but it's about
what can you make this person do?
How can you help
them unlock their full potential?
How can you help them take action
earlier so that time is on their side
when it comes to health?
And I think we're gonna continue
to see some really exciting trends
in those directions.
<v ->I think first of all,</v>
you asked about two things.
The technology trends, I agree
are getting more personal, right?
Wearables are not
what they were when I started my career,
like there are patches and things like that.
Wearables now are fitting into people's life,
right, ring for example, we launched our ring,
I wear it all the time,
I don't even know it's there,
it's just part of my body.
So we're making it easier like that.
I think of other form factors
that are coming as you know are like AR glasses
and they're textile kind of variables.
So I think as an industry,
we are developing things that are fitting
into people's life versus something
that's so artificial
and add on to people's life.
I think that's one kind of trend.
With regard to AI, there are two places
where I think AI is really making a difference
and both have to do with putting the consumer,
our users at the center.
So it's not like previously where
you're thinking, "Hey, I have all this data,
now how do I generate insights from that
and how do I feed that to people?"
It's the other way around.
Start with you're a user, what are your goals?
What are your preferences?
What are you trying to achieve
in your life in terms of your health?
And then AI, knowing your data,
knowing what you want, knowing your goals,
knowing what's happened with your doctor,
bringing all that together from all your devices,
including home devices and saying,
"Hey, here's what's happening
with you the last week,
you're not sleeping well, right?
And it may be because your stress
is high the last few days,
how about trying these three things?"
So it's that personal
and it's real time.
I think that personalization that Alexi,
you talked about is the most important thing.
I think it's not a mass manufactured
thing anymore, it's really understanding
each person's life, their context,
their questions, and guiding them
in real time based on their data
to help them achieve their goals
with little nudges and insights along the way.
I think there's one more AI trend
that's happening that I want to call out,
which is we can't give people
a whole string of numbers.
So if you just think about Samsung,
we got so much data from our wearables,
our smart watches, our rings,
data coming from doctors, et cetera, right?
And home devices as well.
That's a lot of data
that we just can't give them a string of data.
So we have to create a more personalized way
of engaging with it.
So with the advent of generative AI
and large language models
and health assistant type of interfaces,
we're hoping to allow users to ask
their own questions of the data,
what they want to know,
and then give them the insights
and coaching and guidance that they
need to get to where they want to get to.
But even in terms of numbers,
there's another approach we are taking,
which is, how can we give people just one number?
So if you don't have time
and you just wanna know one number
in terms of how you're doing
and whether you're ready to take on the day,
we have something called, an energy score.
Just look at that one number
on your phones and you can say,
"Okay, my score tells me
that I didn't sleep well last night,
I'm a bit tired.
Maybe I even have something coming
on like a flu or something.
I better take it easy today."
Or, "My energy is very high,
I'm ready to take on the day.
Maybe I can do more things,
maybe even work out today, et cetera."
So that energy score, that one number
can be a very good guide
to how to manage your day.
<v ->I agree with my co-panelists.</v>
Wearables are about personalized medicine,
it's personalization.
You have an enormous amount of data
about yourself, so much of medicine
is you take a measurement
and you look at this point cloud of data
and you fit yourself to some linear model
and it's not a good fit for you.
With wearable data,
it's so personal and it's exactly right,
it's like how do we take this mountain of data
that's being collected, every heartbeat,
all the stress, all the sleep,
and how do we provide really personalized
input to the user so they can do something
to improve their health state.
It's a big opportunity.
You know, there's a lot of talk about AI,
but it's not just a large language model,
it's a really difficult problem
and we'll be working on it for a long time,
but the opportunity is enormous, I think
because of just all the data
that we can input into these sorts of models
and what we can provide to the user.
<v ->Yeah, we talked about providing data</v>
to the user, but also sorting
and managing that data for the provider,
for the doctor so that the doctor as we've said
before, is not overwhelmed by the data coming in.
<v ->You know, Praveen said something</v>
that I thought was really good.
It's like the first five minutes
of the visit is, how well are you sleeping?
How active are you?
That's right there.
That should take 30 seconds.
It's all in your data record from your wearable.
We know how much activity you had.
We know how much running you did,
we know how well you slept,
that could be right there for the doctor.
And that could start that conversation
five minutes farther along, right?
And you could have a way more high value
visit with your clinician that way.
So it's an excellent point.
It's like we have to do more
with all of this data to really
set up an improved experience
up and down the healthcare chain.
<v ->Now, in the amount of time we have left,</v>
which is five minutes,
we talk about the using the data
in the doctor's office visit,
the consumer comes to the doctor's
office, hospital, whatever.
How about in-between?
You know, how do you see wearables
allowing that collaboration
outside of the hospital,
outside of the doctor's office
when the data shows that a consumer
is trending in the wrong direction
with some chronic condition such as,
diabetes or heart failure?
You know, how do you see wearables
affecting that relationship or enabling,
empowering providers
to intervene when it's most needed?
<v ->Right, that what happens with your car, right?</v>
When you get a call from the mechanic
telling you that your car
needs a revision or something, right?
So I mean, look,
as you know, Abbot has been the number one
in diabetes glucose sensors
for the diabetes population.
So we already have that interaction
with the doctor or the doctor has all access
to all the information from the patient
and can reach out to that patient
when they see something abnormal
and so forth.
So this is already existing
for a lot of our sensors.
In the consumer space,
what we're trying to do here is
to help the users take care of their health
outside of the doctor's visit, right?
So trying to reduce cost
to the healthcare system basically
by giving them the tools
to manage their health themselves.
But we do work with, as I mentioned,
nutritionists and doctors
to also feed into the product requirements.
So I think that's one interesting point
is how do you get the product more accepted
by physicians and medical professionals is
by designing the product for both,
for the hand users, the consumers,
and the doctors as well, right?
Because there are two users here
and some of the doctors focus
is more on the data, how do we get the data,
but also how do we simplify
the data for the doctor?
Again, they have very little time to look into it
and how do we make the experience particularly
easy for the end users, but also,
always, sorry, in the objective
of driving behavioral change.
Like the way we talk about it within Lingo
is we are not a data company,
we're not a glucose monitoring company.
We are a behavioral change company
'cause that's what matters at the end.
If you don't change behaviors,
it's a lot of money for not much.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v Alexi>Go ahead.</v>
<v ->Sorry, I think that one of the things is that,</v>
as I mentioned earlier, I think
we need to save time for doctors obviously,
but we have something that with wearables,
we have something that's a different kind
of data because it's real time
and it's continuous, right?
Compared to all other health data, which is,
I get a blood test every 90 days
or a couple of times a year.
This is continuous, which means
that we can monitor at home
with people are at risk for something.
If I'm monitoring their sleep all the time,
I can see there's
something wrong with their sleep.
So for example, we got FDA approval
and we launched a few months ago,
a way in which our wearables can say,
"You are at risk for sleep apnea,"
which is a condition that affects millions
and millions of people,
but we can identify risk for that.
So you don't have to give every data
to the doctor, but when there's these flags,
you have a risk of sleep apnea
that can go to the doctor.
Now they have something to go by
and they can do something about it.
So we call those triggers.
So within the data that we are seeing
and watching, if there's a trigger, a flag
that something is wrong, that's a higher reason
to send something to the doctor.
Similarly, we have a lot of heart types
of function and monitoring.
So we can do ECGs on our watches.
We can monitor irregular heart rhythms.
So if there's something wrong
where you see a irregular heart rhythm
or you see signs of atrial fibrillation
for which we have FDA approval,
we can flag that to the doctor
or bring that
to the notice of a healthcare provider.
So the idea of us monitoring continuously,
identifying risk factors,
flagging that at the right time
and getting people the help they
need with integration to services such as,
telehealth is the full suite of things
that we're trying to do to address this.
<v ->I think that, you know,</v>
this interpretation is so important both
for the consumer and for healthcare, right?
So how do you simplify?
It's not just about having enough data,
if we don't know how to understand that
and digest it, it's sort of meaningless.
And so I think that's really important.
It's exciting that healthcare is seeing
the value of this continuous monitoring.
And so I think that relationship
is important to continue to have.
And today, we already have instances
where doctors are saying,
"Hey, I really want you
to wear a WHOOP or another wearable
because I wanna understand
and help you monitor
your autoimmune condition, right?"
And so when you have longitudinal data
and you understand your own baseline
and then you see deviations of that,
it allows you to get that prompt medical
attention that you might not have
otherwise gotten if you didn't have a wearable.
We're also seeing people manage conditions like,
you know, improving their mental health,
which is so deeply related to sleep.
And so you can see when you have
somebody wearing a wearable,
if their sleep patterns are getting erratic,
you know, there's real wisdom there.
And so they're able to have richer conversations
with their healthcare providers.
And so I think whilst
it's not always formal relationships,
this pattern's already happening
and will continue.
<v ->I have conversations with doctors</v>
about, you know, you're talking about
in-between being in the clinic
and being at home, one thing that I see is
for cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy
or you know, a stem cell transplant
or something like that.
I talk to doctors who recognize
that if they can monitor you
after they discharge you,
they can intervene more quickly, right?
They can see the signs of you're declining
or sepsis, things like that,
and they can get you in back to their office
and they can intervene before you wind up
showing up in the emergency room,
which is extremely expensive for them
because they don't want to see you readmitted.
I've talked to doctors
who want to use it for that purpose, right?
They see the value there.
So it's the remote patient monitoring,
but it's like post discharge to make sure
that someone's had a hip transplant,
it's getting their activity,
they're not declining.
I think that's gonna be a very common use
of wearables in the future.
I see that coming.
<v Eric>Definitely.</v>
Okay, Scott, Alexi, Praveen,
Olivier, thank you very much.
It's been a wonderful conversation.
We certainly could go a lot longer,
but we got the red light going on
and the next group's
gonna want to storm the stage.
<v Olivier>Thank you.</v>
<v Alexi>Thank you.</v>