<v Jennifer>Okay, we're very excited to get started</v>
with our next session of the day.
So if you'd like to find an open seat, make a friend.
So exciting to see so many of you here today.
This session is all about smart home standards
and platforms,
and we have a really diverse set of perspectives
on the topic
to really flush out this conversation,
very excited about it.
Thank you again to our sponsors
for your support in putting
on our 19th Annual Connection Summit at CES.
We really, really appreciate your investment
and having these great industry conversations
and learning from peers.
So again, we're talking smart home standards and platforms.
We also have lunch sponsored by ADT, next door light lunch,
first come, first serve.
So if you don't have anything else to scatter onto,
that'll be just right down the hall
and then we're back at one o'clock
for discussion about demand for energy management at home.
And we invite you all to our networking reception tonight,
if you haven't already,
please RSVP for that, it's complimentary.
We invite you all.
We would love to see you there.
I'd love to hear what it is that you're working on
that is over in Treasure Island
and when you RSVP,
all that information about where to find it,
will come through to your email.
Thinking about this topic,
I think it's really helpful to understand
that there is a long history of home automation standards.
Trying to make the devices
communicate with each other,
with the user, with the cloud,
with the various ecosystem players.
Going back to X10 in the 1970s,
we're gonna hear about Z-Wave today,
of course, Matter over Thread, Apple HomeKit type standards.
You know, really trying to take this market
to the next level
and make that experience for the customer at home easier
and simpler and take some jobs off
of the players in this room as well.
It's not a new effort, right,
there's a long history that really the folks today
are building on top of and continuously trying to improve.
What's interesting when we think about
where the smart home is today is
that there are a phenomenal number of choices
that consumers have in the brands with which they may want
to control the devices that are in their home.
They may have devices from many of these different players
and they're maybe using it to control one device
or several devices.
The more devices you have at home,
the more platforms you are using to control those devices.
We are very much in a multi-agent
or multi-control point state
in the smart home for sure
and a lot of the work that you're seeing happening
behind the scenes is meant to give consumers that choice
in what brands they most wanna interact with.
So we're gonna be talking today about how we get
to that vision of coordinated intelligent home experiences.
What's the progress and standards today
and the pain points that they're solving,
as well as the pain points perhaps,
and the process
and what those standards efforts are focusing on this year?
And where's the real competitive edge in platforms today?
What's really defining the different experiences
for the platform choices that consumers have?
So I'd love to start by asking each
of our phenomenal panelists to introduce themselves
and their organizations and then we will dive in.
So I'm gonna start with Nick Millette,
who's the product development merchant
with for smart home at the Home Depot.
<v Nick>Yeah, hey everybody, Nick Millette.</v>
I lead Home Depot's smart home product development efforts.
So the Hubspace platform, that is what I've been leading
for the past couple years.
<v Jennifer>All right, fantastic,</v>
and I love, we have limited time,
so that is concise and I love it.
Thank you, Nick.
Michelle Mindala-Freeman,
chief Operating Officer of Connectivity Standards Alliance.
<v Michelle>Okay, my name took up too much time.</v>
<v Michelle>So, Hi everybody,</v>
Michelle here with the Connectivity Standards Alliance.
We are the home of over 720 member companies
who are working together to develop standards like Matter,
maintain and grow standards like ZigBee
and work on new things like product security
and access control with our newest standard Aliro.
<v Jennifer>Thanks, fantastic, thank you Michelle.</v>
Avi Rosenthal, managing partner with BlueConnect Partners
and chairman of the Z-Wave Alliance.
<v Avi>Thank you very much, I'm very happy to be here.</v>
Avi Rosenthal, my day job is
with a group called BlueConnect Partners,
but my volunteer position, I'm the chair
of the Z-Wave Alliance.
We are also a coalition
of a few hundred companies
that all adhere to a specific standard
that standard's coming up on 25 years old.
We've got thousands of products that have been certified
and literally millions of products
around the world that have been deployed.
<v ->Okay, wonderful, Stefan Witkamp CEO of Homey,</v>
now part of the LG Electronics family.
<v Stefan>Yes, hello, I'm Stefan.</v>
I am indeed the founder of Homey,
recently been acquired by LG.
We make a universal smart home platform
and also universal smart home hubs
that basically incorporate all relevant standards
in smart home today.
So that includes all the standards of Michelle
and of Avi, of course.
And because of
that we have a very unique view on what's happening
and how users are actually using
the different standards that are in the markets.
<v ->Okay, fantastic,</v>
and also Yoon Ho Choi, who's the president
of the Home Connectivity Alliance,
<v ->Very nice to meet everyone.</v>
So HCA in a nutshell is an alliance that's focused
on long life, lemme say long life,
big ticket items like appliances and HVAC.
and we are focusing on interoperating
both within ourselves
but with all of the other platforms
that are out here, nice to meet everyone.
<v Jennifer>Okay, fantastic,</v>
so I'd love to start.
I'm Jennifer Kent, vice president
of research at Parks Associates.
Should have introduced myself, but there we are.
Hello, if I haven't met you already,
I'd love to hear what it is that you're up to, so fantastic.
So I'd love to start with talking about the fact
that when you think about this long history
of the smart home and the developments of standards
and platforms,
the way in which consumers really acquire devices
tends to be very kind of device-led,
single device, single app.
Melissa in the last panel was talking about that
a little bit, security systems,
some hub devices being perhaps the most widespread way
that consumers are able to put together a more kind
of coordinated home.
Broadly speaking, Stefan,
I'd love to start with you here
and then, and then go to Nick.
How would you describe where we're at
as an industry today in making a more integrated,
coordinated home experience possible?
<v ->Yeah, so that's a very interesting question</v>
because there are these standards
and a lot of the products on these standards
are interoperable with other products on the standard,
but people they don't very much choose a standard,
they choose a product, they choose a brand,
they choose a single application
that they wanna start out their smart home with.
So that's what we did as a sort of universal remote control
for the entire home.
We decided not to focus on a single standard
because in practice a lot of standards,
different standards are used by different popular brands
and people might wanna mix and match
and some of them might only have a proprietary API,
another sort of way of connecting.
So our approaches are really to offer users later on.
So not by design the first step,
but later on they can add on Homey, it would connect
with either ZigBee device Z-Wave device
or proprietary API an open API or or a Meta device
and it would make sure that they can,
after that choose to expand to different,
to to different standards and to different products
and different brands
because it's relatively hard for consumer to understand
that you're not just buying a product,
you're also buying into a certain technology,
a certain ecosystem and what all entails.
So our solution to that is just to
make sure it doesn't matter later on
to really unify it at all
And I think it's a sign
of those different standards, all of them being mature
and integrated into popular products.
<v Jennifer>You make a good point about later on, right.</v>
About how many devices do see customers having
before they go for a Homey, for instance, right,
how far into their device collection do they?
<v ->Yeah, that's the difference,</v>
so typically people will start
to have a couple of devices, a couple of brands mostly
because if you have 20 devices,
but they're all the same brand
and there's no real pain point
because it's all the Philips Hue app
or this all Ikea or, I dunno.
But as soon as people start to collect two or three brands,
then you see them purposefully looking for a platform
because you know, a smart home doesn't really feel smart
if it's a collection of 20 apps on your phone
and if you leave home, you have to open five of them
to make sure that they're all in a way mode
or that they're all set to the right level
or this right setting.
So you would wanna have an automation system,
not just for control,
what it's firstly focused on,
but also for automation so that things happen automatically
and it really becomes a smart home
and not just buttons on your phone in scattered apps.
<v ->Yep, okay, Nick, I'd love to get your point</v>
of view in watching--
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->You know, you've been in Smart Home</v>
for a while now too right, where are we at?
<v ->Yeah, so for those of you who are not familiar</v>
with Hubspace, Hubspace is a smart home platform
that exclusive to Home Depot.
So one of the challenges
and the unique things about Home Depot is,
that's where the mass market consumer is shopping
for their DIY,
their home good products.
One of the challenges with that
is selling smart home products to
that mass market consumer
is a very challenging problem to solve,
especially when you have different brands, different apps.
So there has been a lot of progress made
in getting the price points down.
So if I'm going to buy a product from a Home Depot,
typically a customer's coming in to solve an issue
in their house.
I have a sprinkler system
and I want to automate my host so that it turns on,
it turns off at a specific time.
If you can get to the point where you have a $10 trade up
to get to a smart hose timer where it automatically turns,
you can customize it instead away from home.
A customer is much more likely
to adopt a smart home product at a lower price point
and then getting to the point where you have the automations
and the jets
and smart house where everything runs off of itself.
I think the building blocks are coming into place,
but I have concerns of selling that
to the mass market consumer
because I'm not sure that that is necessarily there today
for that mass market consumer.
If you're an enthusiast who is passionate about it,
wants to put in the time to really, really, really do that
and maintain it and do the upkeep that comes with this
'cause, you know,
those automations over time require a lot of maintenance.
I think that is there for that consumer,
but for the mass market consumer,
we've getting the building blocks in place
in order to allow them to do it.
<v Jennifer>Yeah, and our data shows</v>
that there's definitely two big,
very different groups of users right now.
There's the people that are on their 10th device
and have been in smart home for a while
and because really post Covid there's been quite a bit
of people coming into the market
about 45% of all US internet households now have at least
one core smart home device,
they're on their first or second device.
So very kind of divergent sets of user groups using these.
So can you share a little bit more about, again,
kind of who's using Hubspace
and like how they kind of get onto the platform
and then do they stay in the platform
or how does that work?
<v ->So yeah, I can share a little bit.</v>
So we have over 200 products.
So one of the great parts of Home Depot,
we cross every product category that Singer House minus TVs
and mattresses I think we only sell online.
So we have customers across Hubspace products
across a lot of those product categories.
The main customer
that we're targeting we're getting is
that first time coming into smart home consumers.
So one of the things
that I've always found an interesting stat to look at
is the number of people buying mechanical and digital timers
around the holiday season every year versus smart plugs
and our Hubspace Smart Plug was the only smart plug,
defiant smart plug,
powered by Hubspace is the only smart plugs we sold in store
for the past couple years.
Seeing the rate at which customers are adopting the smart
versus the non-smart has definitely grown as consumers
through the Covid years of,
everybody's just more comfortable with
controlling things from their phone
and how they are on their phones.
And not to mention, I think that the industry
as a whole has taken a large step forward in terms
of cybersecurity and data privacy
and making sure we're doing things right for our consumers.
<v ->Yeah, yeah, that's great, great to hear,</v>
thanks for sharing that.
Okay, let's jump over to the standard side.
I want to go kind of deep on the, on the standard side
and give you Michelle to start a moment
to explain in the room, again,
for those who aren't following closely, right,
what's happening with Matter in particular.
And then you mentioned Aliro, of course,
but what is Matter again and what is it not?
<v ->Okay, so Matter is a global open,</v>
smart home standard that is developing a common language
for the Internet of Things.
I put emphasis on the word language
because what it is not is a full stack solution.
Doesn't include a radio layer like say for instance ZigBee
or Z-Wave, but it's designed
to allow a manufacturer and a developer to create a product
that will talk to as, Stefan pointed out, multiple brands
of platforms
and to other products on different radio layers.
So you can build Matter on top of wifi,
you can build Matter on top of thread on ethernet
and Matter also includes bridging capabilities
because there are so many embedded based devices out there,
whether it's appliances or other platforms
or these various products on other standards.
So Matter also creates a facility, if you will,
to allow those to come into a Matter fabric
and talk with each other.
<v ->Okay, so a couple big things have been announced</v>
pretty recently
and I'd love to just kind of get quick hits on,
on why they Matter, particularly, you know,
for these folks in the room developing these great products.
So Apple announced that it was putting, you know,
thread border routers and the Apple 15 Pro.
Why and why does that matter?
How does that impact, you know,
how the users might be able
to experience Matter-enabled ecosystem differently?
<v ->Right, and I think I'll build a little bit on</v>
what Nick was talking about relative to infrastructure
and building platforms,
the infrastructure for the smart home.
So again, as a language kind of that sits
at the application layer,
there is a need for this infrastructure
to allow devices to talk to each other.
Thread as a local connectivity solution is something
that allows devices to talk at a radio level
with Matter on top.
So including more thread radios
and products including thread border routers
to allow home networks to be successfully built
and allow all those devices
to talk together in a very active mesh
is a way to build out the infrastructure of the smart home.
And so in addition to things like Apple,
putting border routers,
thread border routers in iPhones,
we also saw with the release of Matter 1.4 home routers
and access points, which we lovingly call HRAP.
For those of you following along with acronyms.
We also announced HRAP products that will have,
again, that infrastructure of wifi
and Thread built in as manufacturers adopt the specification
to help flesh out that infrastructure.
So it's simpler for people
to bring new devices into their homes.
<v Jennifer>Okay, last quick hit one</v>
and then I'd love to go to Avi
to talk about Z-Wave a little bit.
One announcement I saw,
I think just maybe yesterday was around Apple
and Samsung and Google,
I believe, allowing for Matter attestation
or certification to also apply to their works with programs,
sort of simplifying those processes.
If you could just explain a little bit
about what that means.
<v ->Sure, sure</v>
and I'll try to be a little bit more precise about that.
In short, you know, today companies bring products
through a Matter certification process
that involves ensuring compliance with the specification.
We also developed as a member service a lab
in Portland, Oregon, our interoperability lab,
that lab tests,
I'll say beyond the specification
and the certification components,
allowing a product manufacturer
to test in a more real world environment
against various smart home platforms and ecosystems,
again, proving out interoperability
and performance in more of a real world way.
So this announcement, it not only speaks to the value
of the interoperability lab,
but also that companies like Apple
and then as you pointed out also Google and Samsung
will be accepting results from our interop lab
as inputs into their own works with programs
that should help manufacturers kind of speed up the process
of securing works with badges, which will, you know,
continue to have value
and there are many other things
that those platform providers seek
from their device partners.
So this is a way to speed up development,
speed up time to market
and improve performance for consumers.
<v ->Great, everybody loves efficiency in the process,</v>
so thank you for that.
Okay, Avi, love to, you know, turn to you.
Michelle really explained eloquently
about Matter being a language,
not necessarily the full stack.
We've got all these great standards
of how different devices can communicate
that have different advantages to them.
Tell us a little bit about how Z-Wave, you know,
fits into the larger ecosystem
and how we should be thinking about Z-Wave
alongside Matter development.
<v ->So it's a really interesting question,</v>
obviously one that we get very, very often
at the Z-Wave Alliance, right.
Why, where is the Z-Wave relevancy in this world
of interoperability?
We don't see Matter as a competitor, right.
We don't see it as a us and them situation.
There are great opportunities within the marketplace
for when Z-Wave is the right solution for the problem
and there are great opportunities when the marketplace,
when ZigBee or LoRa
or any of the other standards out there
are the right solution for the problem.
Z-Wave in and of itself being a full stack
means that the developers
have complete control from the radio level all the way up
to the application layer
and be able to control all of the elements of that to fit
for their designs and for their solutions,
that's not to take away from anything else
that's interoperable and there's no practical
nor any technical reason why
at some point Z-Wave won't also play in the same sandbox
as lots of other standards.
There are organizations
and companies out there today, Nabu Casa
and the home assistant guys
that allow for bridging of various types of networks
within from Z-Wave to LoRa
and LoRa, Matter
and Matter to Z-Wave and all kinds of things.
Whether or not we've gotten to the point where all
of the technical issues have been fixed, accounted for,
evolved into, we're not there yet,
but all of these are evolving standards.
Z-Wave in and of itself is looking at ways of solving lots
of communication problems within various industries.
We've always been sort of centered on residential
and now we're branching out.
Our new Z-Wave long range allows
for different solutions for different industries
that we've never been able to take advantage of before.
And so as each of these standards evolve,
they get to take advantage of those problem solvers.
When the engineers sit back
and they go, all right, I gotta get this signal from point A
to point B and it's gotta be interoperable with this.
They get to choose what the right standard is
for their application
<v Jennifer>You mentioned kind of expanding</v>
beyond residential.
Z-Wave has had a really strong presence
within like home security for instance,
use those types of systems.
I believe there's also announcement
with Smart Rent looking at multifamily.
Is that kind of one of those next areas expansion
that you're looking at or are there other verticals?
<v ->No, you know, and it's funny</v>
because Z-Wave has been used in lots
of different verticals for a long time.
I, myself, did a very large hotel installation
using Z-Wave many years ago
and so multifamily is a great extension
of where Z-Wave is going.
Z-Wave long range actually gives more opportunity
in those kinds of environments
because now we can network together
two different mesh networks
with three different mesh networks.
So now you can have campus-wide environments,
so smart city
and then industrial applications.
Just yesterday I was having a conversation,
there's a big problem in the drone world
where drones end up breaking their electronic leash
because they rely on things like wifi and cellular
and there's some latency built into cellular
and wifi sometimes can be interfered with.
Z-Wave long range is a really great opportunity
to do command and control, right.
It's not gonna do the video, it's not gonna be backup,
but it's backup for the command and control
of a drone, for instance.
So the drone could be a mile and a half away
and Z-Wave long range will still give you full bandwidth
to be able to communicate with that drone,
bring it back to its home base,
and make sure that you don't lose communication with it.
So there's lots of cool applications
that we're just starting to scratch the surface on.
<v ->Awesome, drones also have a new PR problem</v>
in New Jersey, I hear
<v ->It's a whole other issue that we--</v>
<v ->Yeah, okay, you know, I love to give you an opportunity</v>
to tell us more about the standard.
You mentioned, of course,
talking about those larger appliances,
long lifetime appliances.
Tell us a little bit about why you felt like a standard was
needed for sharing energy consumption data
and sharing data for these types of appliances specifically.
<v ->Very good, so HCA, as I mentioned</v>
before, was focused on the long life items.
And what I'm talking about is these are your washers,
your ovens, your refrigerators, the devices
that basically stay in our homes for decades.
The reason why we had created.
We did spend a lot of time, you know, thinking,
do we need to create an actual new standard
and a new alliance to actually tackle this?
Should we be part of Matter or CSA?
And what we decided was that we do actually need
to have a separate alliance
to focus specifically on this decade-long approach.
I think as manufacturers we've seen standards come and go.
We've seen even platforms come and go, right,
and so I think what we do is we wanna make sure that this,
whatever we end up with is meaningful
and there's a path to transition for our consumers
who own these devices for over 10 years, right,
or 15, 20 years.
I think the second part I wanted to make sure is
that we, HCA focus on is one is, you know,
the interoperability and kind of the communication
between the manufacturer and the the consumer.
The other important piece is
that all of this interoperability
and connection, it actually leads to somewhere, right.
And the somewhere what I'm talking about is
there's services
and there's additional sort of business models
that actually come from this, right.
And we wanna make sure that for the manufacturers,
for the consumers, right,
and for the service providers, whether it's retailer
or energy, utility insurance, home security,
that there's actual a path to make that service happen
and in the end return that benefit to the consumer, right.
So I think that's what keeps these initiatives sustainable
and we will keep it going, right,
and so we spend a lot of energy focusing on that, yeah.
<v Jennifer>Can can you tell us a little bit more about,</v>
you know, sharing of energy consumption data?
Because I think this is one thing
that when we think about the energy conversation,
we have a panel leader all about energy.
You know, utilities are definitely interested
in seeing more information behind the meter.
Consumers right now often don't have very granular access
to what devices in their home are, you know,
consuming what types of of energy, you know.
What does, what you're working on mean
for other ecosystem players and for consumers?
<v ->Yeah, I think the energy,</v>
you know, there's so many different actual ways
to reach that granular data.
There's not one path to get there, right.
If you have an appliance that's five years old,
that's may or may not be part of the meter,
there's al alternative ways to get to that granular data.
I think in the end what we focus on is
for the utility companies,
what information do they need in order to provide efficiency
and cost savings back to the consumer, right?
Because in the end, all of this effort,
if it actually doesn't net out to savings for consumers
or savings on kind
of the pressure on the grid,
doesn't really mean anything, right.
So what we do is we try to take
a non-agnostic approach in terms of the many different ways
to get to that.
For example,
the HCA first specification on energy
focuses squarely on demand response and that only, right.
And so what we don't think there's a one solution
to fit everything.
We're almost taking it
as chapters in these types of approaches.
Same thing for home security or insurance, right,
there's multiple data points
that would actually help make these businesses
more efficient,
therefore returning the savings back to the consumer.
And I think for, you know, our relationship,
many of our members
, the relationship with our consumers is,
you may buy a refrigerator from me,
maybe two or three times in the whole life
of our relationship, right.
So it's pretty important the trust
and the continuity, right,
so we really focus on that.
<v Jennifer>I love your description of chapters</v>
that's a great way to think about it.
Final follow up here
and then I'd love to get back over to the platform side
to Stefan and Nick,
can you explain a little bit how, I know, you know,
the CSA is also working on energy consumption sharing,
you know, efforts, how the HCA's effort is different.
Is it that focus that real, you know,
special focus on demand response?
Or can you describe a little bit about
how those two efforts are different or complimentary?
<v ->I think in the bigger picture of things,</v>
it's all headed in the same direction for sure.
I think right now
it's just almost different swim lanes, right.
So HCA is focused on HVAC, long life items,
you know, appliances, these items that have long life.
We actually do focus, not exclusively,
but very primarily focus on C-to-C interaction
because many of our utility service providers, many of our,
you know, security,
it's an easier path to get
to connecting these older products
that are already in our home
and so that's sort of where our focus is.
I think what we, you know, I know that
for CSA and Matter, there's a much larger perspective
that's kind of defining the overall sort of industry,
but I do believe it's in the same direction,
just different swim lanes for now.
<v Jennifer>Okay, great, Michelle did you--</v>
<v ->Totally agree, totally agree</v>
and I think, you know, stated it well in that
there is so much embedded base equipment out there,
there is such a need to be able to collect the information
that is out there today
to do that cloud-to-cloud connectivity
and then as people buy the next new thing
and add other high load equipment to their household,
whether it's a heat pump or a water pump
or a pool pump, that all of that data can start
to be integrated both locally and then also in the cloud.
So I think they're very complimentary efforts.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
<v ->Okay, all right, great.</v>
So Stephan and Nick, I wanna come back to you guys
and get your thoughts as more platform players
of how do you think about the various standards that are,
you know, available, how you make use of them or don't?
Or how you enable your users, you know,
to make use of 'em and how you track the efforts
that are happening in the industry?
<v ->It's great that there's so many different standards.</v>
I mean, who else would buy our hubs?
No, I'm just kidding, but I think,
and that's also already
what came out the last conversations.
A lot of these standards
they serve slightly different purposes
and you see that everywhere in the market, right.
Some standards provide exceptionally long range
and good reliability,
but there may be a little bit more expensive to integrate.
Others are more on the cheaper side,
but they come with other disadvantages either in bandwidth
or in in range for instance, or in requirements for a hub.
And you see that a lot of the devices
and a lot of the engineers, they look at their application,
they look at what's best
for their ecosystem and their brand
and I think in the end, all of these standards
and all of these standards progressing,
I mean it tremendously helps the consumers
because even though if there's different standards,
having standards is always better than having, you know,
a thousands of proprietary systems
because with standards at least it's a handful or maybe 10.
And then to make it really a win for consumer,
I do believe that there should be proper user interfaces,
proper platforms like Homey to integrate multiple
of those standards into a single real user application.
Because otherwise you still have 10 ecosystems
and this is a user you don't want a thousand ecosystems
to choose from that are all proprietary,
but you also don't want to have 10,
ideally you would have one application,
one platform that you know combines it all.
So that's the vision and the way that we look at it
and we also don't wanna, you know, steer the market
or whatever, if there's a very popular product
that's based on a certain standard that apparently,
you know, has selected that standard for a good reason
and is doing well, then you know, we'll follow that
and we'll make sure that the consumer
can use that interoperable with other standards
no matter what the standard is or ends up to be.
And I think that sort of,
yeah enabler role has given us a very nice
and unique position to actually realize this vision
of the whole smart home working together
based on, of course, the shoulders of giants
of the standards that are there
because it's easier to implement 10 standards than,
like I said, a thousand proprietary APIs.
In real life,
You end up doing both
because there's still a lot of proprietary APIs,
but that's okay as an open platform you can do both.
<v ->Well and just as a follow up to that,</v>
obviously with the acquisition of LG who has thinQ, right.
So they have an interesting kind of dual strategy now.
So you all coming in as a open part of their play
and then there's the ThinQ play.
<v ->Yeah, so they're opening up their ThinQ part as well.</v>
I mean, that's not our effort,
that's the guy in Korea doing that.
As you might see, I'm not super Korean,
but indeed they are opening up
but it's still proprietary system and a proprietary API.
But I do know that they are also moving towards Matter,
at least Matter control
and I do also assume Matter recipients
and I do believe they're part of the ADA as well.
So probably LG appliance will become compatible
with that as well.
It's just sometimes
for a larger corporate it takes a little bit longer
to get on the board and it allows us,
and that's what we're here for,
to help them accelerate their efforts
and to make sure that, you know, we play
and keep playing that front runner role
under the Homey brand
and they can take more and more of our technology
and make it available across their great appliances
and devices as well.
<v ->So Nick, coming from more of a proprietary play, right.</v>
How you think about what standards are right
for your experience?
<v ->So we are the advocates for the customer,</v>
the mass market consumer
and we take that very, very personally.
Like I have to work in a Home Depot store
at least four days a year.
I'm usually in a store every Thursday
with an apron on
talking to a consumer selling customers products.
Once you have to start explaining
what the difference between, you know,
to go back to the 2017 days of ZigBee, Z-Wave,
this one works on this platform,
this one works on that platform, you've lost the consumer.
So where we focused our efforts on was a customer needs
to be able to buy any one of our products.
Again over 200 products categories across the store.
If you buy any single one of those products
and you take it home, you'll be able to set it up,
get it connected in under 60 seconds or less
without another product being needed in your home.
So we focused on the technologies that we knew all
of our customers had in their homes today.
So everybody has at that point that had a cell phone,
had Bluetooth.
If you were buying a smart product, you had wifi.
So all of our products are wifi and Bluetooth.
You don't need product B
in order to buy product A when you get it home.
And you don't have to explain, you just tell the customer,
if you buy this, you take it home,
you download the Hubspace app, it will work.
Now from a proprietary platform point-of-view,
yeah I would love it if you know everybody were like me
and had a hundred Hubspace products in their house.
But we want our customers to be able to.
We're in the business of selling products to our customers
and our customers buying products from Home Depot.
I want them to be able to control the products
from whatever area or surface that they want
to be able to control it from.
You know, we can do anything we do, can do everything.
You just can't do everything all at once.
We started with the platforms
that had the majority of the market share.
Amazon, Alexa and Google Home
had a large portion of the market share
as Parks data shows us.
So that's where we folks our efforts
and making sure that we had the best value products
that we could get to market that were as simple as possible
for customers to explain or to understand
and get set up in their homes
to help our store.
Associates be able to just have confidence
in selling smart home
and getting smart home products into that mass market.
So for me the standards are fantastic.
I have nothing but support for Matter
and all the other alliances pushing the industry forward
and we support them.
For today,
we are focused on what is the easiest for our customers
to understand and get adopted in their homes.
<v ->Okay, so looking forward, what do you think.</v>
And then Stefan, I'm gonna pose the same thing to you.
What do you think is the next really layer
of differentiation for the platform experience, right,
that makes consumers choose to stick
with one platform versus the other?
I think we're getting a lot more kind of tighter competition
among what platforms have really emerged as as leaders
and really at the table.
Is it the intelligence?
Is it the, the spread of the product portfolio support it,
is it the trust they have with you as a brand, right?
And they know that they can come into the store
and talk to the apron guys
and who can help them with their problem, right.
What's gonna differentiate the next platform
kind of level there?
<v ->I think that that's a hard question to answer</v>
'cause there are a lot of different types of customers.
But I think for the mass market customer,
it's going to be what is the simplest platform
that provides the most value to the customer.
Am I able to tie together my ceiling fan
and my window air conditioner
to more efficiently cool my house?
Very easy value add things
for the mass market consumer
that are given to and dev in a very easy way.
I'll speak for the mass market consumer.
I think there are, I'll let Homey go for their answer.
<v ->No, I agree that actually saving money</v>
or like the HCA also mentioned like having a cost first
or a price first reason really helps
with mass market adoption because not everyone just buys it
because they're interested in tech.
Some people just want a real life application
like saving money, like saving energy.
And luckily because mainly
because of this, the work of these standards,
I think the first differentiator of having
that broad product range supported I think has been covered
by most mature platforms.
Also as platforms matured,
obviously we came from like a hundred
and consolidated into five, maybe 10 really relevant ones.
I think future-looking it will be towards providing value,
for instance through energy, energy monitoring,
energy saving energy timings with dynamic energy prices.
I think that's an important one.
Automation, you know, making sure that you get more out
of your devices by having them really work together
because it started out with control,
but control at a certain point is a given
and automation is next.
And I think people will become a little bit more,
at some people, not everyone will become a little bit more
aware of, you know, what kind of privacy policy
and if they're really converging towards a single platform,
who do they trust their data with?
Do they want it cloud operated or locally operated?
Do they want it spend a little bit more
but have it not with an advertising company
or they don't wanna spend less
and have your data hosted by an advertising company?
It's those sort of choices that people will be able to make,
but only because that first hygiene layer
of having connectivity,
being able to connect all those devices
and I'm super happy to hear that you're opening a Hubspace
to more platforms as well
because of course we would love to integrate it as well.
Is there, and we can build on towards the real value
of smart home because connectivity
and controls a hygiene factor,
but the real value is in automation, it's in energy savings,
it's in real life monetary things
and then of course it's a personal choice
on privacy, local or cloud.
<v ->Okay, great, love to see partnerships happening on stage.</v>
Just have a minute or so left,
I'd love to do just a again,
like a quick hit of on the standard side,
what are you focusing on?
What's next for standards development for Z-Wave
for Matter and for HCA that we can kind
of expect coming down the pipe here?
<v ->So for us, our three initiatives</v>
for 2025 are the expansion of Z-Wave long range.
The addition of S2-V2, our new encryption methodology
to make us even more compliant with the Cyber Trust Mark
that's coming out later this year
and third is batteryless technology.
So we're actually adding an environment within Z-Wave
that will allow for the use of batteryless sensors
and things within the Z-Wave environment.
<v ->Okay, Michelle.</v>
<v ->Okay, I'll try to be that brief as well, very good.</v>
So from a Matter perspective this year,
we are gonna continue forward
with our release cadence as the market has continued to see,
focus continues to be on making sure
that we've got a very robust software development kit
that's open sourced, available
for everyone to get access to.
We're gonna continue to evolve
and I think there's already been some news out there,
our device portfolio adding some new devices
as the year progresses and continue to progress things
like our energy management features,
et cetera, that were so well developed in in Matter 1.4.
<v ->Okay, fantastic, Yoon Ho.</v>
<v ->Yeah, I think for HCA, there's so much good work</v>
that's being done in the industry.
You know, 2025 and beyond,
we're gonna focus on how do we take what we do
and make this actually connectable to the larger ecosystem
of home services
and home ecosystems that's out there, right?
So that means what we do, how do we connect this
to other businesses
and industry sectors that are out there to,
in fact, create business models
that will provide benefit back to the consumer.
I think that's gonna be our core focus for going forward
and we look forward to that.
<v ->Okay, fantastic, well, you're out of time.</v>
Please join me in thanking our panelists
for their great insights today.