<v ->We are here to explore the future of communities</v>
through the lens of technology in the session titled,
Smart Communities, Sustainable Future.
So BCG did a study recently and it predicts that by 2050,
70% of the world's population will live in cities.
That's several billion people moving to cities
in the next couple decades.
The integration of smart technologies into cities
isn't something that we're just going to plan for
and talk about innovation.
It's something that's a necessity now.
It's going to bring sustainability, efficiency
and quality of life to our cities,
which we all know is what attracts people.
Today, I have the pleasure of moderating this discussion
with these fine people
who are some of the deepest industry experts you'll find.
We have Philip Tucker here from Panasonic,
Kristin Bell from Siemens
and Marco Stracuzzi from Telit Cinterion.
Today we'll dive in to how we harness technology
to overcome some of the challenges that smart cities bring
and how those can become opportunities.
We're going to focus on some of the fundamentals
of smart cities.
That's your sustainable infrastructure,
connectivity and communications,
data-driven decision making as well as smart mobility.
Before we begin, let's see how many of you
are already living in smart cities
or experienced smart cities technology firsthand?
Show of hands.
We have a very well-versed audience today.
I'm sure they'll have tons of questions for us as well.
So to kick things off, I'm going to start with you, Philip.
Share your perspectives on any technology advancements
in some of the core and fundamental areas of smart cities.
<v ->Definitely, thank you.</v>
So Philip Tucker, nice to meet all of you.
I'm with Panasonic Smart Mobility Office.
So we're a group located out of Denver, Colorado.
And our main focus, we're a smaller group within Panasonic
and we're incubating new (indistinct) within Panasonic,
specifically in the mobility and the energy space
and bringing those to the market where we can help achieve
some of Panasonic's goals,
especially around our green impact initiative
where we're trying to reduce emissions globally
by 300 million tons.
I don't know if you guys heard Kusumi-san talk
about that in the keynote,
but it's a really, really big objective for us
and we're playing a big role in that
in bringing some of the new technologies
and new solutions that Panasonic
is developing around the world,
bringing those to the US and other big markets here.
I came from the electric power industry.
I've worked with municipal utilities,
investor-owned utilities.
I've helped them design demand management programs,
specifically around electric vehicles,
integrating directly with vehicle OEMs,
working with chargers, finding ways to integrate
additional electric vehicles onto our grid
in a way that's not going to damage our grid.
We can incorporate more electric vehicles more quickly
without investing tremendously into the grid
and the additional assets to support that.
So that's why I came to Panasonic, though.
That really excites me and I found within Panasonic,
I can kind of unite that power background
and join a team that has these massive global resources
to tackle this big problem that we're facing.
So what I wanted to share about today was two areas
where our team is specifically working on,
smart city objectives in smart communities.
So one is around smart grids, specifically around fleets
and how we can help fleets decarbonize
more quickly and more cost effectively in a way that, again,
can actually help support the grid in a lot of good ways.
And the other is around connected vehicles
and how we can help communities operate their vehicles
in a smarter way with assets
they actually already have in the vehicle,
so they don't have to go and make massive investments
to get more value out of the vehicles
they are already operating.
So the first example I want to talk about
is with the city of Fort Collins.
If you're not familiar with it,
it's the fourth largest city in Colorado,
in Northern Colorado, about 60 miles north of Denver.
And this is a city well-known for their innovation.
They are recognized in the Smithsonian Museum
for their innovation.
So they're very cutting edge
and they have sustainability plans to reduce their emissions
from 2005 by 80% by 2030.
So they are really working very hard to this,
they're making huge gains and electrifying their fleet
is a very big component of achieving that goal.
And so we've been working with them
on how they're going to do that.
How are they going to electrify?
They have 1,200 vehicles in their fleet,
how are they going to make that plan
to switch to electric vehicles
while not damaging their grid, supporting their grid
and also keeping their costs low?
We've all heard examples of where fleets electrified
and their costs went up,
because they charged incorrectly
or did other operations the wrong way.
So we've been working with them on that
to implement some solutions
where they can advance their electrification plans,
their decarbonization efforts
in a way that achieves those outcomes.
And the way we did that is we implemented
our charging management solution with the city
and we demonstrated that we can integrate with chargers
throughout the city from various manufacturers,
not just Panasonic chargers.
Actually can't buy a Panasonic charger in the US anyway,
so we're working with any vendor they wanted to adopt
within the city there that could work with our software.
So we're working with those across multiple sites.
And we also integrated with their DERMS system.
If you're not familiar with the DERMS
that's Distributed Energy Resource Management System.
It's a utilities tool that they use
to manage assets on the grid, typically behind the meter,
such as electric vehicle chargers.
So we're getting signals from their DERM system.
And then with the chargers that we're integrated with,
we can actually manage the charging, we can shift it
or we can delay charging
or we can slow charging down a little bit,
which will help the city to maintain a safe, reliable, clean
and affordable grid for their entire community.
And we're seeing some very good outcomes from that.
For example, we did a forecast for them.
They showed us the electric vehicles
they're planning to adopt by 2030.
And with our solution, they're actually able
to reduce their costs,
their exposure to these costs of $800,000 a year,
which is quite a bit for a community that size.
It's 150,000 people there.
And that means a lot to me.
That's $800,000 that can go to other community programs
and services that really can produce
a lot of benefit for the community.
And it's not going towards more fuel,
it's not going towards wires that go in the ground.
It's going towards things that the community needs
and can create a better city there.
So that's pretty exciting.
Other benefits include the emissions reductions.
So we're helping them to decarbonize their fleet
and with the forecast, they're looking at reducing
their emissions by 1,000 metric tons of CO2 as well.
So some great output from there.
Other great things,
outcomes from this project with them has been,
we were able to integrate our CMS
with their accounting system.
So now they're actually able to track
which department charged with and they can charge
the right department for the fuel they were using.
So the much more management that is required
for adopting all of these vehicles.
It also gives them a central place
where they can see the charges
if they're working, if they're not working.
If you have an electric vehicle,
you've probably pulled up to a charger that's not working,
which is really, really frustrating.
And that's kind of slowing things down.
We're creating an alert system for them,
so that if one's not working, they get a text,
they know, roll a truck, go fix it.
So we can keep the city running here.
Also, we helped them apply to a grant to get more chargers
and all the infrastructure they're going to need
well into the future.
And so we helped them apply to a grant.
They won $11 million to advance this initiative
within the city of Fort Collins.
I think this is a really great project to show.
When you plan out the charging for your operations well,
you integrate with the utility,
you create a smart grid using these assets,
it can create a lot of benefit for the community.
So that's that component.
The other smart component I wanted to talk about
was connected vehicles.
So that's another group within the Smart Mobility Office.
We have some focusing on charging management,
others focused on connected vehicles.
We have this group that's working with different fleets
and intersection owner operators.
They've been working with them to help traffic flow better,
to create smarter cities for traffic
to flow a little bit better.
You can tell that's not my space, I'm the energy guy.
But it's pretty exciting stuff when you get into it,
because having these vehicles connected,
communicating to the infrastructure within the city,
it really can help reduce emissions,
getting traffic to flow better, faster.
We're going to reduce emissions from vehicles
just sitting there.
The one that gets me really excited
is with emergency vehicle responses.
So I have a a stat here that every minute
that is increased by an emergency response vehicle
to somebody who's having a heart attack increases
the likelihood of fatality by 10%.
So getting an emergency vehicle where it needs to go
as fast as possible is absolutely critical
for our smart cities moving forward.
And one thing that we've been able to successfully do
within our group's work with this team, the TOUGHBOOK team.
Most emergency vehicles around the country
have this already in the vehicle.
And so by working with this team,
we're able to develop new systems
where we can understand where do these vehicles need to go,
when they need to get there,
what intersections they need to get to.
We can communicate with those
and we can clear the traffic out,
so those vehicles can get there as fast as possible.
And it's all through something
that's already in the vehicle.
You don't have to go buy some new widget and gadget.
Use this, use what you've already got in the vehicle
and we can help create a better community
where you live there.
So those are the two examples I wanted to share.
<v ->I know, Kristin, you and I talked about how energy</v>
and energy efficiency really underpins the smart city.
You want to share your perspective on that and-
<v ->Sure.</v>
<v ->What you all are doing</v>
at Siemens?
<v ->Sure, thanks</v>
for having me on the panel.
I am from Siemens and I joined Siemens about a year ago,
where I'd previously been at Salesforce for almost a decade.
Was inspired to come to Siemens
because of the role that they're playing,
not only as being really the cornerstone
of our hardware infrastructure,
things like our train systems, our hospitals, our factories.
They also built out the grid in many cases
around the world globally,
the infrastructure of this grid and this grid is aging
and the grid is not at capable of servicing
the growth of the population you talked about,
but there are also a lot of challenges
in addition to population growth that I'm really inspired by
as we look towards a blueprint for the future at Siemens.
So one of the things, I think,
that I've really learned in the last year,
I've done some research and really tried to become familiar
with what's happening with our utilities,
what is happening with the grid?
And there's a number of things.
There's the energy that we need to clean
and there's a commitment towards that through regulations.
There's the population that's growing,
but there's also this complexity
of the changing weather patterns.
And we all know and we've heard about blackouts.
But compounding that is actually our veracious appetite
for energy through computation.
So for any of you that heard these keynotes
or heard in, certainly, the Nvidia keynote,
we heard a lot about AI,
but those data centers that support AI, the cloud,
crypto, that is an always-on situation.
So when it comes to energy,
it's not just turning on our heat and keeping us warm
and it's not just plugging in our light
and hoping we can see.
There's a lot more demand that we have.
And so with the goals that have been set,
there's tremendous pressure on the operators of the grid.
And so I am so proud to work at Grid Software,
which is this division of Siemens that is really committed
to finding solutions for these utilities.
Those solutions come in a number of areas.
They come in understanding energy consumption,
but also really knowing
about where those distributed energy resources are.
So as we get excited about electric vehicles,
it's also daunting to think that five years ago,
we would've probably not been here
or if we were here, we'd be wearing masks because of COVID.
Five years from now, there will be 18 times
the number of electric vehicles there are today.
Those vehicles need to plug in and they need to charge
and our utilities are blind or not visible
to all the charging that's coming their way.
And this is truly a crisis.
So we've got an aging grid
and then we've got this increasing demand
and the demand is exciting.
We've got solar, we've got wind.
How do we help these energies harness
their centralized approach
into having flexible autonomous grid management
that accounts for the direction we need to go in?
So we have a number of products in our portfolio
that, in the end, are really committed to just that,
getting more out of the grid
by allowing software and technology to give visibility
to where is the high and the low voltage,
where are the distributed energy resources coming from
and how can our grid operators come up with new strategies?
We're also helping with grid simulation and the digital twin
and really helping to be able to forecast
and plan towards those changes.
So we have some real success stories around,
just a couple examples would be in Norway,
we have a partnership with Elvia,
which services over 2 million customers
in Europe, in Norway.
And they have extreme weather patterns,
but they also have really aggressive sustainability goals.
And we have developed software
that they're co-innovating with us on
to really have visibility
to where the low voltage needs are,
where the high voltage needs are
and we're helping to get 20% more capacity
out of the grid for them.
Harnessing data is a really big challenge.
Simulation of the grid.
So in Vermont, we're partnered with the Vermont Electric,
VELCO, that is doing just that, simulating the grid,
so that we can really help them not just plan,
but plan through those simulations
so that they know how to prevent blackouts
and they can take advantage of real time data.
So there's a lot that we're doing,
there's a lot that's impacting these communities,
but I'm really excited.
I'm excited to be here with both of you.
<v ->I think what I heard from you was we've got</v>
a lot going on in terms of managing.
There's supply of these devices, there's the infrastructure,
there's the things on the infrastructure
and all of these things have to be connected
and they have to speak to one another.
And I think we take that for granted sometimes.
We don't know that it's going on in the background.
And so I wanted to invite Marco
to share his perspectives on that,
because he works on the invisible things
that make it all happen and come together.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
I am honored to be part of this panel
with this line up of speakers.
So I'm Marco, I run product management
for cellular technology at Telit Cinterion.
I guess most of you have never heard
about Telit Cinterion before.
So we are a global company specialized
in Internet of Things solutions.
The reason why probably you have never seen our brand
is because our technology is deeply integrated
into devices from the top industry brands.
So to make it simple, hopefully, for everyone,
I'll tell you what we do through an example.
And since we are talking about smart cities,
I want to take the example of a smart bin.
So think of a smart bin
for a intelligent collection of waste.
So the only way for the bin to communicate
to the control center to the cloud, it's fill level.
So whether it's full or empty.
It's to have a radio transceiver that send the data
through the cellular network to the cloud
and the control center.
So we do that wireless communication module.
So we have a wide range of wireless communication modules
across different technologies.
Cellular 4G, 5G, but also Wi-Fi and GPS for location.
Then the module itself is not enough,
'cause just like your smartphone doesn't work without a sim
and a subscription from a mobile operator,
also the module needs a sim card.
So we are a provider also of sim cards
and data plan tailored for IoT applications.
So we are a mobile virtual network operator.
And the last piece is software solutions,
both for the cloud and at the edge
to make the communication as efficient as possible,
because we are talking about sustainability,
we are talking about energy consumption.
So it's important to optimize as much as possible
the exchange of data between the devices and the network,
because this can save, for example, the power consumption
because some of these devices are running on battery.
They are not attached to the main power supply.
So I could have made these examples, also,
for other smart city devices.
Think of utility smart meters for the automated reading
of electricity, water, gas or street lights
or precisely, Philip talked before about charging stations.
They also need to be connected.
So my point is there's no smart city without connectivity.
Connectivity forms the backbone of the smart city
and at Telit Cinterion,
our mission is really to ensure that this connectivity
is continuous, reliable and resilient.
Kristin, you touched upon what happens
in case of power outages.
So that's important.
The connectivity must be resilient also to power outages,
to some emergency situations.
And there are few ways to ensure this is happening.
For example, a critical device
should have multiple connectivity options.
For example, think of a,
I don't know, a surveillance camera
for security in the city.
It can work most of the time on Wi-Fi,
but in case of power outage,
the Wi-Fi network is not going to be available.
So it should have a failover connectivity to cellular,
for example and connect to the cellular network
based on a backup battery.
Also, when we talk about cellular connectivity,
it's not enough to connect to just one operator network,
because that network may not be available for some reason
at some point in time or in some remote locations.
So we usually provide solutions to have multiple options,
so the device can select a primary operator,
but then also can fall back to a secondary operator
when the first one is not available.
So redundancy is important in the connectivity.
I think redundancy is fundamental also
in the power supply system.
So you need to have multiple power sources,
can be renewable sources or can be backup batteries.
And that's really the way to ensure all the devices,
whatever they are, they are constantly connected,
which means they can be remotely monitored,
because at the end of the day, that's what is important
to always be able to reach the device in the field,
take out data from the device
and analyze the data and take actions accordingly.
<v ->No, thank you for that example.</v>
I think simple examples like that,
just a bin that everybody has in their home,
it could really be something different
once you start layering on the connectivity and the data
and the ability to monitor and whatnot.
So smart cities are here to stay.
We're only hoping that they're getting smarter.
So I'm going to ask you the tough question now.
What excites you the most?
What do you see coming in the future?
If we were in 2050, what have we achieved?
<v ->Hmm, hmm.</v>
<v ->Hmm. (Philip chuckles)</v>
<v ->I can dream about anything. (moderator chuckles)</v>
The 2050.
The things that excite me the most is,
well, clearly electric vehicles. (chuckles)
I think the amount of benefit that's going to bring
to the entire world to decarbonize
our transportation systems is huge.
Transportation is one third of the emissions in the US.
If we can solve that, we've tackled a third of it.
That's a huge problem we can go after and solve.
It's going to take all of us.
I think what's exciting is getting to work
with folks like this up on the stage
and tackle these problems together.
It's going to take more than just Panasonic.
It's going to take Siemens, it's going to take everybody
to get involved in this,
to really solve this massive challenge
we have in front of us.
And I think there's a lot of great, exciting technology
that we're seeing out there, especially around AI
and all kinds of other amazing developments
that are coming up and all of those
are going to be necessary.
But I think the bigger thing for us also to be focusing on
is how do we get that from here where we're talking
and demonstrating and from the lab
and making this look really flashy and cool,
how do we get it out into the field?
We need to get this out into people's hands.
We need to get new technology implemented
and actually producing the benefits
that we're talking about here.
To me, that's the most important thing
that we can be working on is moving from ideas
and laboratories and getting it out into the cities
and into people's hands and producing the benefits
that we all really are here to try to achieve.
<v ->What about you, Kristin, excites you?</v>
<v ->2050, one, is a big year for goals around net zero</v>
and I think there's a lot to achieve in getting there.
So I love your comment about partnerships and collaboration,
because I think right now,
even though this is a global challenge, it's still tackled,
even within the US, at the municipal level
in terms of varying regulations,
which makes it complicated to solve these problems.
And so I think greater partnerships,
that's probably within and beyond the utilities.
Something I also think that's a little bit left field,
but certainly important, passionate for me
would be an ethical approach to AI,
which is moving at quite an astronomical speed.
And I think that so much of what we see through demos
and ideas is exciting but also potentially frightening.
And so I would hope that just as we're thinking
about the grid, we're thinking about always on
and being smart in our connectivity with community,
I would hope that we're also really mindful
of what we should be ethically thinking about
in terms of safety and in terms of the future for all of us.
<v ->Marco, what about you?</v>
<v ->So there is a technology that is already deployed,</v>
excite me a lot and it's digital twins,
because at the beginning, it looked to me
like a science fiction movie technology, but it's real.
So digital twins are virtual replicas of physical entities,
that can be buildings, infrastructure
or an entire smart city.
And I think this technology
is going to be more and more important going forward,
because it allows to simulate, analyze
and optimize possible scenarios
and understand where our criticalities in the smart city.
Optimize, can be the traffic flow, we talked before
or can be, also, you can detect heat highland
where the temperature is going to be very hot
and so you can plan where to plant trees.
So there's a lot of things you can do with digital twins.
Then there's something else that is more
of something solving one of my private issues.
I live in a city in Italy that it's not that big,
but it's very dense so there's not much land
for building houses and also parking slots.
So I dream in 2050 to have my car driving me
to the nearest available parking spot.
So with my car talking with the smart parking system,
finding for me the available parking spot
and maybe driving me there.
So that's something I think we are not that far
to make it happen,
but today, I'm losing hours of my day
just looking myself for a parking spot.
<v ->And as long as my car talks to your car</v>
when you're done with that spot.
<v Philip>Perfect.</v>
<v ->But no, thank you all for sharing your perspectives</v>
and, in your roles, seeing what's coming down the pipe,
what's next and being in that innovation role.
We have a few minutes left,
so we can take a couple questions if folks have questions.
There are microphones around the room
if anybody wants to step up to the questions
or belch them out.
<v Audience 1>I have a comment,</v>
maybe something broad to get some opinions on.
So you asked a really good question,
but you look so far ahead, 2050
and I think there's so much that can be done
as you mentioned, Philip, in terms of what happens in 2050,
but in your speaking, I'm also seeing
some of the restrictions that,
possibly, we ran into with IoT.
And I wrote it down, I didn't write down right there,
but there's these silos of ideas
and some things were thrown out.
So we need to collaborate more, vertical integrations.
How do we facilitate that as an industry
in terms of getting multiple,
and some of this is legislation as well,
multiple entities to work together,
so we get to 2050 in 10 years instead of (indistinct)?
<v ->I would say, certainly in the utilities industry,</v>
the nice thing is there already is a lot of collaboration.
Certainly even within the US, there's a lot of,
it's a small finite universe
and so learning and sharing best practices.
Grid simulation's a great example and that digital twin,
which is something that Siemens
has really developed and built.
Where those simulations are revealing critical information,
that information really just needs to be shared
that there's no winner in this game.
We all win when we discover and uncover opportunities.
And that's really what this presents for us.
There's a big challenge.
I talked about five years ago we were in masks,
five years from now, the energy consumption
will be three times what it is today.
And I live in Oregon and there was an article
in The Oregonian just three weeks ago warning us
that there are going to be blackouts,
because there are over a hundred data centers
in the state of Oregon.
And that consumption of those data centers,
as I was talking about, that computation demand,
how do we partner and collaborate,
I think that regulation is sometimes the limiting factor.
And so sometimes I think we can be a facilitator
to those partnerships of one utility to another
and I think eliminating this notion of competition,
which luckily with utilities, it's a finite universe.
They're not as competitive,
so the collaboration tends to exist
and just really sharing best practices is essential.
Does anyone else have something to share?
<v ->I think you touched on it earlier about partnerships.</v>
I think it's partnerships within the ecosystem
but also with the public sector as well, to your point.
There's a lot of regulation.
I think part of that partnership is shaping that regulation.
And that's through a lot of education.
And then to your point, how do we get things
into the communities.
Think of piloting things before we scale them
and using those pilots to shape some of those regulations.
<v ->Two thoughts, one along those lines.</v>
Doing the pilots, I think working with cities
and getting folks to think innovatively about their own task
that they're doing right now.
It doesn't always have to be, "Hey,
revolutionize this brand new technology,"
like switch completely from one technology to another.
It can just be incremental step by step by step.
Let's solve the next big challenge.
So in Fort Collins,
they have about 50 electric vehicles actually.
They've been pushing quite, quite rapidly,
but now they're ready to jump a little bit more
and then they'll go even further.
And so I think there's an incremental thing.
When we're looking at 2050,
it's not all going to happen at once.
It's going to go step by step by step by step to get there
and we'll build brick by brick by brick to get there.
I think the other thing, to answer your question
and maybe this goes along with the policies
and the partnerships, standards.
I think standardization is absolutely critical
in lots of different fields.
I mean I'm a mechanical engineer.
Try to think of building a car
without standards for screw sizes and thread sizes.
You couldn't.
We couldn't build something
without those standards in place.
And I think that's critical for us
in some of these other technologies,
especially around communications.
Lots of different communications protocols
between different systems, utility systems,
systems that manage IoT devices.
For us, a common protocol we use is OCPP,
Open Charge Point Protocol.
Having everything speak the same language allows us
to build more complex and more sophisticated machines.
And so I think that's going to be a very critical component
as we build out these new systems and new technologies
to make sure everything can communicate,
'cause that's going to be one of the biggest components
is things working together here.
<v ->Absolutely I wanted to bring up some standardization.</v>
So a hundred percent agree.
So the way to allow interoperability and allow devices
of different types from different vertical industry
to exchange data with each other
and leverage this data sharing
is to have more standard protocols as much as possible.
I want to add two more points,
especially when we talk about data exchange.
Cybersecurity.
We need to make the public trust smart cities
and not fear smart cities and the way to do that
is to pay a lot of attention to cybersecurity
in an holistic way.
So we know that a chain is just as stronger
as its weakest link, so the data must be secured,
must be encrypted, in transit, addressed.
We should leverage artificial intelligence algorithm
to analyze the data patterns, detect anomalies
that may be possible cyber threats
and also train the end users
to the best cybersecurity practices.
<v ->That's a good one.</v>
<v ->And the other point</v>
is privacy also, so when we talk about taking data
out of devices is important
that there are the right privacy policies in place.
So the users, again, are not afraid
of sharing data coming from devices maybe
that are inside their homes or in their neighborhoods
and they don't feel like their personal data
is being shared.
So that's also another important point in my opinion.
<v ->That's a great one.</v>
Question?
<v Audience 2>- I think for the (indistinct) description,</v>
I'm working for United Nation Environmental Program,
so because of nature of our work,
I am wondering what international (indistinct),
because already, this year (indistinct),
but these kind of issues is directly linked
with the electronic car and the smart city.
So that's why I would like to know
how your companies is (indistinct)
in this international agreement?
<v ->It's a good question.</v>
I'm not sure I know exactly how to answer that question.
Do you have any?
<v ->I had a hard time hearing your question, I'm sorry.</v>
<v ->Could you come to the-</v>
mic there?
<v ->There is a mic right there-</v>
if you want to.
Oh, maybe it's not working.
Can we get that? (microphone thumping)
There you go.
<v Audience 2>Hello.</v>
I'm working for United Nation Environmental Program
and I was wondering what international agreement
the Panasonic and Siemens is considered,
because already, the Basel convention will revise this year,
at the same time Global Convention on Chemicals
will be established this year.
But this kind of conventions is directly linked
with the smart city and the electronic vehicles
and especially batteries.
So that's why I would like to know how your companies
is dealing with this international agreement.
<v ->You mentioned Siemens in there, too.</v>
I don't know of any agreements going on in place.
<v Andrea>If you don't mind, so if we can speak tomorrow.</v>
I know that there's a partnership between Panasonic
and Siemens working on that and we keep going (indistinct).
You can come back tomorrow.
I actually believe we're having (indistinct).
<v Audience 2>Oh good, thank you, awesome.</v>
<v ->It's a directive environmental.</v>
<v Audience 2>Thank you.</v>
<v ->I'm not familiar with what you were talking about.</v>
Sorry about that.
<v ->One exciting thing I'll talk about</v>
on that front though is,
and Kusumi-san talked about this at the keynote today
is we are really focused, as a company,
on the circular economy and ensuring that,
Panasonic is the largest producer
of batteries in North America.
And so that's a really important component to us
is what goes into those batteries.
How are we going to reuse those?
We need to do that in a really smart way.
We want to help protect the environment
by introducing more electric vehicles,
but we also want to protect the environment by making sure
we're not taking more out of it than we need to.
And so we have been working with redwood materials on that
to develop some very advanced ways to recycle the materials
from batteries, put that into new batteries
and get them back out on the road again.
So that's definitely a big component that we're working on,
but looking forward to hearing why Andrea has to share
in her sessions, too, sounds like some good stuff.
<v ->So I think we're down to the last few seconds,</v>
so we'll wrap it up.
I want to thank everybody, I want to thank the panelists
and the audience as well.
I hope this is a conversation that we continue to have.
Enjoy the rest of CES
and find us for more questions on smart cities.
Thank you. (audience applauding)