<v Kristen>Good afternoon, everyone,</v>
and welcome to our session
on navigating the multifamily IoT markets.
We're very excited to have you all here with us today.
If you haven't met me before, I'm Kristen Hanich,
research director here at Parks Associates.
I lead our coverage of multifamily housing,
really guiding our research efforts,
both syndicated and custom throughout the year.
Before we get started, I would like to give
a special thank you to all of our sponsors
for helping to make this event possible,
as well as our other events as well.
So this is our 2:00 PM session, as I mentioned,
really taking a look at navigating
the multifamily IoT markets.
Special thank you to SmartRent
for highlighting this session.
So we are gonna be taking the next 40 minutes or so
to really dive into this topic.
So understanding what is going on on this markets,
why it is appealing to folks,
as well as diving into some additional details.
The topics of note are really taking a look
at how IoT is serving this role,
both as an operational tool as an amenity,
and also looking at connectivity as a key enabler
for deploying all of these different solutions.
We're also gonna be taking a look at what to expect in 2025.
So there are some major developments underway.
A little bit of context, again before I get started,
so we've seen in multi-family housing,
there is this pendulum that tends to swing
from one way to the other every few years.
The last couple of years,
we have been in an operational efficiency mode.
So really focusing on reducing costs,
improving efficiencies,
we do expect to see this historic amount
of new inventory hits the markets
and renewed focus on resident satisfaction,
especially bringing in these new amenities.
So a lot of times, IoT has served
kinda this operational role, but also resident satisfaction.
The most interesting solutions are of course
those that really hit both of those needs.
So serving the needs of both the owners
and operators as well as the residents.
I mentioned wifi.
It is really this key enabling technology,
making a lot of these IoT deployments possible.
A lot of owners and operators are deploying managed wifi
really throughout their properties,
both inside of residential units
and throughout the property as a whole.
I will say that with a lot of retrofitting going on,
we are seeing increased demand, not just for wifi networks
but also solutions that will work without wifi.
So sparing them the expense of having to retrofit
in a lot of complex connectivity.
To discuss all of this and more, I have an excellent lineup
of panelists here today, so very excited
to dig into this conversation.
Let's go through and do a round of introductions.
Maybe a couple of minutes for each of us.
Let's see.
John, you are first up in the lineup.
Can you tell us a little bit about yourself,
your work at ADT?
<v John>Thanks.</v>
The headshot's a little bit old.
I guess I gotta add a few pounds and eight years to that.
Thanks for everybody for joining.
John Butrim, I oversee the Builder
Multifamily and Community Association division at ADT.
Basically, anything that is a commercial relationship
but ends with a residential user
in front of that panel or phone for the app.
<v Kristen>Very excited to have you here with us today</v>
and kinda looking again to dive a little bit more
into the subject.
Eric, so you and I were talking a little bit
not too long ago about kind of Kwikset
and some of it's movement there.
So excited to hear a bit more.
<v Eric>Yeah, great to be here.</v>
My name's Eric Harnischfeger.
I'm a senior product manager with Kwikset
as part of the ASSA ABLOY Americas residential group.
I'm particularly responsible for Kwikset's
multifamily electronic organization
for the access control market for multifamily.
We're in a really interesting place right now,
because Kwikset is relatively new
to electronic multifamily access control,
but we're now part of ASSA ABLOY,
which is obviously a market leader here.
So I'm excited to be here and have the opportunity
to talk through how we're navigating that
as both part of a kind of a new entrant into the field,
but also with the backing of the ASSA ABLOY establishment.
<v Kristen>Very happy to have you here with us today, Eric,</v>
and of course Greg Mora,
longtime mainstay here at our Parks events.
So Greg, can you tell us maybe a little bit about yourself,
your work at Johnson Controls?
<v Greg>Alright, thank you everybody.</v>
My name is Greg Mora,
and I'm with the Global Product Security
Division within Johnson Controls.
We have about 10 different business units,
and global product security is one of them
where we focus on everything from access control,
video services to a business that we call Intrusion,
which ties closely to our relationship with parks.
A large percentage of the smart homes
or connected homes today feature monitored security.
And so we support the multifamily businesses,
like ADT and others through an extension
of our products that are primarily based around security
and now increasingly are expanding
into the market for builder,
build to rent and multifamily.
<v Kristen>Thanks so much, Greg.</v>
Very happy to have you here with us again also.
And Braeden Scheer, joining us from SmartRent.
Braeden, can tell us a little bit about yourself,
your role at SmartRent?
<v Braeden>Absolutely, well, great to be here.</v>
Thank you, everybody.
I'm Braeden, vice president of product.
I oversee our hardware and software product strategy.
SmartRent, we're a leading provider of smart community
and smart operations software in multifamily.
Our vision is to help everyone live and work smarter
and we do that through a purpose-built ecosystem
of our own hardware and software,
but we also have a great network of partners
to help us deliver that mission, provide asset protection,
operational efficiency, and a premium residence experience.
<v Speaker>You look like you're a headshot.</v>
That's good.
<v Braeden>Thank you.</v>
Although I need to get a new one, probably. (laughs)
<v Kristen>I think we all need to update</v>
our headshots at some point.
But yes, very happy to have you here with us.
Also joining us, Hagan Kappler,
co-founder and CEO of Daisy.
Hagan, can I ask a little bit about yourself,
your role at Daisy, kind of what you guys do?
<v Hagan>Great, yeah, thanks so much for having me.</v>
Hagan Kappler, I'm the co-founder and CEO of Daisy.
Daisy is the first national installer
and service provider of all the technology
that you need in your home.
Small business, apartment, everything from TV,
speakers, lighting, home security cameras,
also motorized shades, the control systems
that tie them all together.
One day, we'll be installing the robots in your home
and then coming around to service them when they break,
because at the end of the day, it is technology after all.
So our points of differentiation are, one,
being a national provider and having that brand awareness.
We are the one and only national brand in that space.
And then two, we have an ongoing service
so we're not just installing the technology
and then kind of leaving the resident
or the homeowner to their own devices,
because, again, technology breaks.
Also, the consumer needs evolve and change over time.
And technology evolves, pricing changes.
I mean, we're all here at CES
and it's amazing how technology changes over time
or even in just a few months or in a year.
And so we're there every quarter to help our consumers
as we listen to them, help them with their needs,
fix things when they break,
but then install things over time.
Anyway, so that's Daisy and that's who we are.
And I think I look exactly like my Photoshopped-
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
<v ->Headshot.</v>
<v ->But yeah, I'm very happy to have you here</v>
with us today to discuss this topic.
I think it's extremely timely.
We're seeing a lot of exciting momentum
in multifamily housing, especially kind of when it comes
to retrofitting, what's going on there.
But let's first take a little bit of a step backwards.
So our audience here at CES is maybe a bit different
than our usual, so I would like to, first,
kind of dive into the topic of demand
for smart living and multifamily.
So what are you guys seeing that makes multifamily
kind of a great market to get into when it comes to IoT?
Like what kind of smart solutions
are these owners and operators asking for?
And Hagan, maybe you can kick us off
and we can go kind of this way.
<v ->Sure, I think there's two kind of customers, right?</v>
There's the property manager
and then there's the resident herself.
And so from a property manager perspective,
they're looking for kind of the basics.
And probably, this panel is best suited
to those kinds of questions.
And from our perspective, we can help with those basics.
Then when it comes down to the resident,
that's no different from what the average
homeowner and consumer now.
Daisy today skews more towards the luxury
higher end consumer,
but you're seeing everything from television, speaker,
human-centric lighting, the security cameras,
again, which a number of folks on this panel can speak to.
And then something that kind of ties it all together.
The stuff is super complicated.
What we're seeing on average is that,
well, from the Parks research,
and again, these guys can speak to it better than I could.
Jason in the back could speak to it very well,
but is that on average, 22 connected devices
in a customer's home, but that people are more frustrated
and overwhelmed than ever.
So they're really looking not just for the device themself,
but for an ongoing service.
And so those are two of the drivers that we're seeing.
And then from a multifamily perspective,
if you think about who's really drawn to multifamily,
it's going to be a consumer who skews a bit younger,
and those younger consumers are gonna be looking
for kind of the latest and greatest in technology,
the cool television to watch sports on the weekend,
they're gonna be looking
for the latest and greatest in speakers,
something simple on their app.
They're typically gonna be a do-it-for-me type of consumer.
No offense, I don't know if anybody's in this generation,
but they're not really used to installing stuff themselves.
They kind of came out of the womb
with the technology working like for them.
And so they're not going to be installing it for themselves.
There's human-centric technology that's at play here.
So lighting that is working and evolving
with their kind of needs as a human.
And then motorized shades that's in tune
with what's happening outside.
And then if you think about kind of the older consumer,
there's technology that's helping with aging in place
and that's actually working
with kind of their family and friends.
So those are the types of technologies
and the needs of our clients that we're seeing.
<v ->Yes, and certainly,</v>
a lot of different potential use cases,
a lot of different values,
and especially as you're saying with the younger generation
kind of looking for this as an amenity specifically.
<v ->Yeah, so I'd like to,</v>
I'd like to share Hagan's comments a bit
in terms of the buyer types or the customer types.
And certainly, you see that is twofold,
but then behind the customer,
that is the resident, the person that's going
to be living with the technology
and then the property manager
that will be making decisions and installing
and living with the result of that.
I think we have to include the ecosystem
of partnerships that it takes
to be successful in this marketplace.
And so there are challenges on all three sides.
For the consumer,
smart home tech is now becoming somewhat
of an amenity for properties,
they can differentiate with and compete with.
Years ago, it was stainless steel type,
appliances or the flooring
or finishes and things like that.
And now, I agree with you a hundred percent,
the demographic is shifting a little bit more
around the expectation around lifestyle and amenity
and it becomes a show point, it becomes an expectation
and the connectedness to the app and the phone
and what they can do and how it makes their life easier,
they identify with that a little bit more.
Now, I don't know that we're at a tipping point yet,
but certainly, we are,
I heard it mentioned earlier,
we're like on the threshold to the mass market,
and I would agree with that comment.
Now, the challenge for manufacturers like us that sets up
is that for the property manager
and for those customers that that Hagan's team is servicing
and others, what value do we provide then?
Well, again, we're coming at it from an established,
established long-term businesses
as portfolios of products that have been reliably installed
and operating over generations.
So there's higher confidence.
We are a global brand, not just a national brand.
So for these partners, a lot of these big property managers
who are more than regional, they're national and beyond,
they need a partner.
They need a single throat to choke, so to speak,
when it comes to that selection.
And they know that they're gonna be serviced
and there are gonna be minimal callbacks.
In a traditional security market,
we refer to a quality metric known as a truck roll.
Once I do the installation, do I have to go back?
And one of our KPIs is to basically allow that install
to go very fast with high reliability and not have to churn,
not have to get called back.
And so I think one of the property management
challenges today is they're short staffed,
and they have to learn some smart tech.
So how do we make their life easier?
I think that's a second layer.
And third, again, I said is backed up by this ecosystem.
We all have to work together
and partner in a more effective way
to help keep that cost of operation in line
and make it attractive to then
deploy to more sites smart tech, okay?
So it's not just about what the protocol is
or what the device is itself.
It's how it all plays together.
<v ->Yes, and I think one throat to choke is underrated</v>
as a measure of importance.
So we've been hearing from a lot of companies
that that helps them quite a bit.
<v ->Yep, yeah, maybe I'll pivot a little bit</v>
to the market itself, since we have this wider audience.
You saw enterprise smart home in the multifamily industry
really take off in 2019 and into 2020
as COVID really forced adoption
for self-guided tours, right?
Apartment complexes wouldn't need a leasing agent
to show a prospective resident a vacant unit.
They could have technology help 'em out with that.
So we saw it soar, right?
Also during that time, as we all know, low interest rates,
so more properties were bought and sold,
and when properties are bought and sold,
that's a time when investment happens in that property.
As the new investors, the buyer
wants to drive additional revenue,
wants to decrease operational expenses.
And so adoption was soaring.
I would say it's tempered a bit more
because of the size of the market today compared to 2020.
The new construction is hitting records.
However, what, is it half a million,
600,000 new units being built like
compared to the total multifamily market
of 42 million units?
Like you can't match that
by getting adoption up high enough
in new construction.
A new construction, we'll adopt it
at close to the high 80s, 90% range.
But those retrofits, those existing properties
are really the next area of expansion that we see.
<v ->Yes, and I think we've heard rumblings</v>
that with this historic amount
of new inventory hitting the market,
I think it was like a half million in 2024
and then another million expected in 2025,
that is gonna change some of the competitive landscape.
So a lot of companies are looking to retrofits
and kind of different ways
of making this make financial sense for them.
<v ->Yeah, and interest rates changing, right?</v>
So interest rates changing,
those that got low interest rates in 2020 are gonna be,
some of those are variable that are being forced out here
in the next couple years.
You'll have more transactionings happening
that'll drive that increased adoption as well.
<v ->Eric, any thoughts?</v>
<v ->Yeah, I mean, so to jump off of that as well,</v>
I mean, it's interesting what you say about retrofit.
Kwikset Unite, which is our new electronic
access control platform, was designed primarily
for new construction, because Kwikset first and foremost
really is a company built on its relationships,
from the largest builders in the country
to a lot of the kind of successful local businessmen.
But what we're seeing more and more
is even with interest rates coming down,
housing markets in the single family are still wild.
So it's one of those things of how are they able
to justify rents in these multifamily units,
given that there are so many out there now?
So renovations are definitely increasing,
and to kind of pivot as well
to the overarching market and demand,
one of the biggest things I say about multifamily
and multifamily access control as a solution,
really the differentiation point
between a commercial access control system and multifamily,
it's just the level of training
that the users are going to have coming into it.
So for us, really, the focus is on ease of use
and understanding how it kind of meets the market
and meets our customers,
both on the property management side
and as Hagan was saying, on the resident side as well
and how it kind of fits into their life.
So that level of training
and kind of understanding
where multifamily access control sits
within this wider realm of commercial enterprise
all the way down to multifamily is really something
that we've been focusing on as well.
<v ->Yes, and then kind of like you were saying,</v>
like Hagan was saying, there is a lot of learning, I think,
on the part of property staff
and how to actually manage these things
and get them to work properly.
So how do you navigate that
and how do you make it like dead simple for somebody
who might have only had a week of training to-
<v ->Yeah, there's this continued trade off</v>
between all the security in the world versus ease of use.
The more customization, then the more options you have.
And inherently, the more security you have,
the harder it is to use.
So opening it up and understanding at what level
within that user hierarchy do you expose functionality
has really been a big focus for us,
and it's something that we've really seen
people struggle with as a barrier of entry
within multifamily as well.
<v ->And you add to that, the turnover</v>
is high on property, right?
So leasing staff to agents,
the maintenance team members are turning over,
so training becomes even more paramount.
<v ->Yeah, our bread and butter is suburbanized garden style,</v>
and what we'll see is within the first 10 years,
that site may trade hand four or five times.
<v ->So there's a lot of headwinds in this dynamic market</v>
for multifamily right now.
Used to underwrite this smart home technology
maybe as an amenity,
maybe it's a technology fee, right?
For the lease, for the residents.
Retention is an issue in multifamily site.
Teams are churning over at a higher rate
than they've seen in the last 10, 15 years.
Fed rates are high, more supply in the market.
So if you're an owner in a multifamily environment
trying to compete, trying to be successful,
it's a new paradigm as we look into 2025,
and the paradigm comes full circle
into how well am I operating this community
from an efficiency standpoint?
Am I delivering a premium resident experience?
Am I being efficient on the tackling and blocking on site?
Sort of the natural conclusion
of this thought process isn't,
is it Matter or Z-Wave,
or these standards that all of us talk about
from a smart home perspective.
It's more about the magic of what is this technology
delivering to me from an enablement standpoint?
Is it working well in my ecosystem
of my business stack as an owner.
I may be working with 15 different vendors at this property.
How seamless does this access control?
Does this security, does this in-home IoT
allow me to sort of leverage as a differentiation point?
It has become an expectation for residents, I think,
to have these type of technologies onsite,
but it's also becoming an expectation
for the onsite staff as well.
Why go to the key track when I can use my phone?
If I can save one to two minutes,
you know what this industry really needs
is scalability in their solutions.
If I save the one to two minutes, that one work order,
I can do that across a hundred thousand units
and a million work orders.
That's where this technology's gonna be
transformational in 2025.
<v ->I think, Braeden, you've raised a very interesting point.</v>
So how are these companies measuring the effectiveness
of these solutions and kind of what is driving
the interest there?
So you mentioned kinda with access control,
looking at kind of reducing the time it takes
to get work orders, and of course there's benefits there
and not have to have maintenance go pickup keys.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
The level of detail this industry pays
to the most minute operational things on site
is honestly impressive.
We have customers of ours
that look at their entire field structure
and they will be tracking the time it takes for you
just to re-key a lock on move out.
That one task, they're tracking that across
potentially 120,000 apartment homes.
Why do they track that?
Well, again, it comes back to this position they're in
trying to compete in a local market
where maybe there's brand new supply,
they can't raise their rents.
And so the way they're looking at the underwriting
and the performance of the smart technology
boils down to NOI, it boils down to OPEX,
and it's gonna come back to how much time
and efficiency are we creating through these programs.
And that's not just on the back
of house maintenance side of things.
You're gonna see that in leasing as well.
How fast can we get from where we're at
to that prospect and that prospect go around that community,
engage with us, ask us questions efficiently?
These are little metrics that they're gonna be exposing
not just at a property level, but at a regional level.
And they're gonna be looking back
at the technology partners of theirs to say,
"Okay, are you doing what you need to do
to pass me the right data from one partner to another,
so that way, we can look at this information and assess,
do we have the right investment thesis with you
from one property to potentially the entire portfolio?"
<v ->Yes, and from what we've been hearing,</v>
they do like to run these pilot projects,
so really measuring as much data as they can and say,
"Okay, does it make financial sense for me
to take this solution and roll it out
maybe across my whole portfolio?"
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
I think the barrier to entry for technologies
to sort of get adoption in multifamily
is gonna continue to increase.
The scrutiny that you have in the first one
to two to three properties is gonna be higher
because they're trying to sort of
put you in different environments.
You're gonna be maybe at a mid-rise,
looking at different problem statements there,
and they're gonna expose you to that garden style
in completely different part of the country.
They're gonna expose you to the high rise.
And the reason why they wanna do that
is to see the versatility of your solution,
how you work from an integration standpoint
with your partners, how well you can go and meet the needs,
the go-to market perspective of what's happening on site
with their residents and their site teams.
And if they can model that well in a small echo chamber
and it takes them perhaps three, maybe four quarters,
I mean, this is a little bit of a lengthy process.
Once they can feel confident
that this is a scalable solution,
then the turnkey happens,
and now there may be an underwriting decision
at the corporate level to say,
"Let's bring this at a broader adoption point."
<v ->That's a great point because this is the first time</v>
that most of these clients
are adopting this kind of technology, right?
And to your point, they measure everything
to the minute detail.
And so if it's something that they've done in the past,
they've got processes at the wazoo
that they're gonna follow.
They know exactly what play to run
and how to run it and who to run it with.
With this, it's brand new.
It's something that they haven't used before.
So you see that through the sales process,
through the install process,
through the account management process,
that there's so many different departments involved,
whether it's HR, IT, operations, sales
from your client that I think it's up to the integrators
to help provide a lot of this as well, right?
Help providing the data that they need
to make decisions for future properties.
<v ->Being able to get it right from the beginning</v>
has been really essential for us.
One of the things that we've seen
is most of our customer base
is coming from mechanical mindset.
So once they make that switch,
if they don't get it right in the first few months,
they're just gonna go back to mechanical.
They don't wanna roll trucks,
they don't wanna pay for keying,
but they also have to be comfortable right off the bat.
And to your point, scalability is one of the biggest things
that we've been seeing as well.
I mean, relatively basic on the garden style,
but as you scale up, the costs scale up,
the complexity scales up,
and that's something you need to meet for as well.
<v ->And Greg, what are you seeing at Johnson Controls</v>
in terms of kind of how
people are evaluating these solutions
and what they're interested in?
<v ->You're saying automating solutions?</v>
<v ->How are they evaluating?</v>
<v ->Oh, the value add, for sure.</v>
Well, certainly, I think the perceived value
of having a secured home and then extending that out
into automated services
and being able to do that within a common ecosystem
and having a great selection to do that
from a partnering standpoint,
that, to us, is a very obvious immediate adjacent market.
They already have confidence in the brand,
they have confidence in the viability of the solution
and the market segments that we cover.
So for us adding locks, adding some of the other features
are an extension of that.
We consider that more automation
so that you can control more of the climate and other items.
Beyond that, perimeter security's big.
Access control out at the perimeter.
So we have a specialized technology that can address that.
And again, being a multinational brand
that can provide that for us has been
probably one of the more attractive elements
that we have in these conversations
in terms of delivering value as a manufacturer.
<v ->Yes, and I think we've been hearing</v>
a ton of demand for access control,
and access control oftentimes is the tip of the sphere
for kind of a more widespread deployment of technologies.
So Hagan, so we've been talking a little bit about
kind of what companies are looking for
when it comes to deploying solutions,
but when it comes to like actually deploying them,
so rolling them out, what are some things
that kind of companies should keep in mind
and kinda product makers should think about
when designing the solutions?
<v ->Yeah, I think it's just about meeting the needs</v>
of that end consumer.
I don't think that we should necessarily
dumb down the solutions necessarily.
What we advise property managers,
or if we're developing a new build,
is just to think about simplifying
or working on boiler plate, kind of standard templates,
and then we can work with the resident.
And for us, it's a gift.
So we can have residents who we can partner with
to develop customized solutions.
And so that way, we can develop wire,
partner with OEMs to make sure
that there is a whole integrated solution
that's going to work really well for the property manager.
And then just because of we're a national brand
and because we have the backing of our brand behind Daisy,
they know that they can count on us
to be there for not just the lifetime of the build project,
but the lifetime of each resident
and the residents that come after, as there's turnover.
Our company actually loves truck rolls,
so we're very different, I think,
from how probably companies before us in home services
and also in some of the supply chain side
or manufacturer side
has probably thought about this industry.
And so if you think about multifamily, even better.
So we're building out route density,
we're building out density
as we build out this brand nationally.
So in the single family side,
we can go from home to home to home
and do kind of a 30-minute system checkup.
We do this for free.
It's 30 minutes just to checkup and see,
how is your system performing?
And from there, there may be a service call,
there just may be a broken remote control,
babies step on remote controls,
and those need to be troubleshooted,
but there also could be some speakers
that you need to be installed by a putting green.
Don't we all have those challenges in life?
So that happens as well.
Well, as we look at the multifamily space,
talk about density, we park a truck,
we can certainly work on servicing a whole building
and help our OEMs and improve kind of the NPS scores
and kind of the satisfaction and the brand awareness
and make sure that there's good quality
just from the fact that they're maintained over time.
We can also ensure that customers
have good knowledge and education
over the time of the lifetime of those brands.
So those are some of the trends that we're seeing
from residents and also from property managers.
<v ->Right, and then Eric,</v>
I'm gonna pick on you a little bit more.
So you were mentioning, I think the way Kwikset
was looking at kind of retrofitting
and deploying its smart locks into different properties,
so making sure that they would work even without wifi.
We've been hearing from a lot of properties
that wifi has been a big challenge
when it comes to retrofitting
just because it can be very costly
to build out those networks
depending on how the property was constructed.
<v ->Yeah, it's been interesting as we've gone out,</v>
and with ASSA ABLOY, we have the advantage of having
a pretty thorough spec writing team
in addition to what we have with our sales team at Kwikset.
As we've gone out and we've interacted with customers,
kind of understanding what their needs are from the offset,
if you're coming into a retrofit situation, it's challenging
because the networks are there, the infrastructure's there,
and convincing people to upgrade
that can be quite challenging.
Our solution is offline-based, so we are able to have
a cloud based infrastructure that passes data through
from the phone down to the lock,
and the lock is independent of the network.
But what we're seeing in a lot of new construction
is this demand for these full service,
the SmartRents, the ADTs, these recurring revenue services
that offer this value that justifies that.
And being able for us to integrate with them
has been very helpful for us.
But understanding and kind of communicating
to the sites that, depending on the network
connectivity you need, some of the expectations
that you have for what you're gonna deliver
may not be realistic.
So understanding that for the suburbanized garden style
that we really compete in,
do you really want a router on every floor?
Are you really gonna pay for this
when your rents may not offset it,
versus a mixed use
or a mid-rise where you really can have that?
It's all education and working with the customers
and understanding really what their needs are as well.
<v ->Yeah, so those needs, yeah,</v>
as you're saying, can be different depending on
certainly the building type, how old the building is,
what it's made of, all those factor in.
<v ->Also, what problems are they trying to solve?</v>
What is their overall goal in the experience
and the brand they're trying to have
to their residents on site.
And I think that's where you have to absolutely just meet
that customer where they're at that community.
It's community by community.
And when you think about it in those terms,
what you ultimately want to create is just optionality.
You wanna be flexible.
Perhaps at a certain community, you will be using wifi.
If that's there, that's a goal they have,
but perhaps you'll be using different technology
that rolls back on cell or Bluetooth.
The point is to have versatility.
And when you're thinking about deployment
into this multifamily environment,
if you have that versatility,
then it comes down to what's the experience
ultimately to the end user.
And that's where, at the end of the day,
all of this technology is just an enabler
to the software experiences you create for the resident,
for the site team.
You can have a white glove around how you train them,
how you set certain expectations,
but you never want to be in a position
where to solve a problem,
you have to now spear horn into this conversation
a 'let's go and run' in a really expensive circuit
to your community because it has to be wifi.
Well, it doesn't have to be that.
If their problem was I just wanna deliver
a moving experience so my residents
can have smart thermostats, have versatility
and meet them where they're at.
<v ->It's like you've talked about,</v>
the customer base out there is not asking
for specific technologies most of the time.
It's what they're able to enable.
And what you were talking about, Hagan, as well,
that demand pole generation from the resident base,
we get a lot of the inverse at Kwikset
where our property management and our system integrators
kind of tell us what they need for the residents.
It's one of the unique things with multifamily
that just has to be planned for.
You have this dynamic customer client model
where the people who are using it every day may
not be the people who are buying it.
I mean, the purchasing decision for multifamily
is not on the residents.
And even though the residents are using it every day,
they're not the ones that are paying for it.
So being able to meet both sides of that market
with a single solution, it's inherently challenged,
but it's the thing we're all kind of going around here.
<v ->Yeah, and I think you notice</v>
that we've all kind of talked about in some way
a multi customer that we're approaching, right?
Whether it's the resident, the property staff, the owner,
there's one that we've kind of left off the list,
I feel like, which is the technician.
And so for those that are designing products,
like this needs to be a fast install, right?
This can't be something that you're on site in a unit
for eight hours trying to learn in a device
or program a hub, like the expense of doing this
for both the property and the integrator,
they need to be able to turn over units rather quickly.
And so be able to create that experience for the technician
to be able to install quickly,
move on to the next unit is very important.
<v ->Yeah, that's where that kind of boilerplate,</v>
having kind of the basic template
for every unit would really work well.
And then I'm just thinking of one example
just out of my hat.
Like Daisy, for example, could come in
and then customize.
<v ->I've heard of Daisy.</v>
<v ->Well. (laughs)</v>
<v ->Yeah, so we have one question left</v>
in just a couple of minutes.
Maybe we could do kinda like Daniel did in our last session,
just a lightning round.
So what do you think is on the roadmap for 2025?
What are you most excited about?
And maybe two sentences each.
Hagan, if you can kick us off again.
<v ->Oh, I'm really excited.</v>
I think I've already talked about services,
and so kind of being there for the customer,
helping kind of the OEMs out in terms of brand
and ensuring that we're there for customers
when they need us and having that ongoing services.
And whether they're a multi-family resident,
I think most of the innovation
is actually probably coming from residents
of these multifamily businesses.
So listening them and going back to manufacturers
and saying, "Hey, we've got some pretty cool ideas here."
I'm really excited about that.
<v ->Yeah, I think for us, it's gonna be a very exciting year,</v>
and I'll try to keep this super brief.
It's kind of our mainstream panel.
We have restyled, if you will, for the multifamily market.
We're coming out with a brand new line of automation
to allow additional lighting control
and several other things.
So we've got a portfolio that's been under development
that's begun deploying,
and we're super excited about that.
And we're talking about protocols and everything else.
This thing is a rock concert of radios.
It is dual path connected to the cloud.
I could go on and on and on, but that's it.
Now, the other thing and kind of the compliment to it
is the customer experience.
And I was gonna piggyback onto John's comment a moment ago,
but the technician, the person that's installing
and servicing the CX
that they experienced for a fast install,
and there were some very unique challenges
in the multifamily space,
with mesh devices and everything else.
We've poured a lot of effort into that to make it
very, very cool and very fast
to keep that operating cost low.
So just plenty.
Hopefully, we'll be able to connect with folks at the,
everybody's gonna be coming to the happy hour later,
but we could go on.
I'll leave it at that, yeah.
It's good to hear.
<v ->So is the happy hour the thing</v>
you're looking forward to most in 2025?
<v ->Certainly, yeah.</v>
Every journey begins with one step,
and that step begins at about, what, 6:00 PM tonight.
<v ->Look, macroeconomically, I'm just excited for the market,</v>
going back to kind of the way it was in the past
with interest from just transactions overall increasing.
From an ADT standpoint,
we're relaunching our own multifamily platform.
It's dedicated directly to multifamily users.
And so it's not just the traditional ADT product
with a paint of multifamily slab on it.
It's built for this client base
that we've been discussing today.
And it includes a level of mobile security.
So it's a security that can go with you
if you're a leasing agent or if you're a resident,
and you have an SOS button that'll connect you
to an ADT monitoring agent.
So it's a stability for us to connect
and protect folks wherever they are, not just on site,
and build that sense of community for that resident
through that service that we provide.
So shout out to Ashley Etwine who runs our product
and engineering team for all that good stuff.
<v ->Yeah, and selfishly from our side,</v>
I mean, Kwikset's a lock company, right?
But our Kwikset Unite portfolio, we developed this
with a very thorough software and cloud ecosystem
that we only expose a little bit of it.
So as we come into '25, understanding from the market
what they're actually looking for with regards
to that trade off between
that customization versus that ease of use,
we think we have it right right now,
but opening that up, particularly from a more macro sense,
we are seeing many, many more renovations
than we thought we would.
And I think that's really gonna influence
where the feature set goes and kind of what track we follow.
So understanding where that goes,
and as you're saying, kind of some leveling out
of some of the interest rates as well too,
that construction is gonna be picking up again
in the next couple years.
So just excited to see where that goes
and kind of continue to build upon that for Kwikset.
<v ->Well, as we turn the corner in 2025,</v>
from a SmartRent perspective, for many of our customers,
this is no longer a novelty and amenity.
This is becoming infrastructure at the community.
What I'm really looking forward to seeing,
I mean, among many other things, is just the stories
that we can tell and the insights that we can share,
namely around energy and sustainability.
There's so many of these customers of ours
that have their reports around this topic be,
how many trees do we plant this year?
But the underlying value,
what the SmartRent technology can deliver is insight
into that perspective of what is happening around
energy behavior and usage in this community
across the units and how can we make sure
that we find ways to influence that in a positive manner.
<v ->Well, thank you so very much everyone</v>
for joining us today and for that wonderful discussion.
Please join me, audience, in a round of applause
in thanking our panelists.