<v ->All right.</v>
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to this next session.
So my name is Ellen Boehm,
and I'm the SVP of IoT strategy
at a company called Keyfactor.
We're a cybersecurity software company.
We specialize in certificates and certificate management.
But I'm really excited to be here
with these fellow panelists who are experts in their fields
and the focus of our talk today,
which is cybersecurity and IoT.
So we have, again, 40 minutes
and a lot of things to talk about.
So not sure if we'll have time for Q &amp; A,
but if we do, we can entertain that.
Otherwise, find us afterwards.
We're happy to talk.
So with that,
actually I would like everyone just say your name
and say your company very quickly.
We'll just go down the line for intros
and then we're just gonna get right
into the questions, so.
<v ->Hi, Eric Greenwald, general counsel of Finite State.</v>
<v ->Hi, Erik Brenneis.</v>
I'm the CEO of Vodafone's, IoT business.
<v ->Hi, Gregory Laloy.</v>
I'm responsible for the product and IoT with Thales.
<v ->Sri Ramachandran CTO of Somos.</v>
<v ->Trish Reilly, Senior director</v>
of Product Marketing at Aeris Communications.
<v ->Awesome.</v>
Thank you all for joining me.
And then lastly, just wanna say thank you
to the IMC for sponsoring, this panel.
So we are members of the IMC,
which is an organization
that brings together several different companies
and people from around the space
to talk about best practices around IoT.
Specifically, the initiative
that we've been taking on this year
in partnership with the GCF,
is taking a look at the cybersecurity standards
and guidelines that are emerging
and trying to have some practical advice
for companies to be able to adopt
and implement those across the multiple
layers of the IoT stack.
So not just a device perspective,
but from the network and the connectivity
and then the cloud and the apps.
So that's a little side note
about some of the things that we're doing.
We'll talk a little bit more about that today.
But without further ado, let's jump into the questions,
'cause I really wanna hear from the experts.
So we're going to start with Sri
and setting the stage about just
generally the IoT landscape.
What are you seeing?
Obviously a lot of IoT
that we've seen here at at CES,
but from your perspective,
what do you think are the hot trends?
<v ->Yeah, so that's a great question to get started off with.</v>
So we talk of IoT
and then in general people think IoT needs
to be like small devices, small sensors and so on.
But when you look at it realistically,
any connected device is essentially part
of that ecosystem, right?
So it can be an airliner, a Boeing or Airbus airliner,
that's a connected device, really,
you know, multiple connections.
And it could be like a coffee,
coffee maker with an alarm clock
that you can actually program remotely, right?
So that essentially is, again, another connected device.
So connected devices have a pretty broad range
of applications and typically there is a device
that has some way of connecting through a network
to a backend app or application and so on.
So this is in general what the IoT is.
And what we are actually seeing
is that based on analyst research and so on,
the consensus estimate is that there
are 18 billion devices already deployed.
So that's a significant number.
And when we look at the growth rate of this,
the consensus system,
it is also 18.8% compound annual growth rate.
So it's a very significantly growing market.
And pretty much when you look at
what is actually driving this growth,
obviously the different types
of network modalities are actually increasing.
So originally it was just Wi-Fi and cellular
and then there was LoRa.
And then there are so many new ways
to actually connect devices to a network.
And there are two key areas
that are actually driving a lot of this expansion.
Obviously there's industrial automation
that is a huge part of the growth of IoT.
And I think the thing
that we all probably experience on a daily basis is that any
device that we buy for the home now comes connected.
So we just had a refrigerator that went bad.
It was a 25-year-old refrigerator
and had to buy a new one over the,
on the 24th of December.
Fortunately there was a great sale at Lowe's,
so I said, yes, let me go get it.
And every refrigerator had a Wi-Fi connection.
So you cannot find
an appliance without a connection these days, right?
So connected devices,
especially smart home based connected devices,
is another area that's actually driving this growth.
So it's really an expanding market.
It's very relevant to all of us
and it's going to be something that we need
to be all be much more in tune with.
<v ->Yes, awesome.</v>
Thanks. Sri.
So Erik, I wanna go to you now to talk a little bit
about the connectivity
and the networking part of it.
So obviously Vodafone,
I'm sure you have some expertise here,
but how do we support then connecting all of these millions
of things globally wherever they are,
as Sri was mentioning, the volumes.
<v ->I think there are three points to this.</v>
On one hand it's the network technology itself.
was and is a good technology.
But for a smart meter, the new technology,
narrowband IoT is better for a super fast device.
Or if you want to download big amounts of data,
5G is better.
So we've gone to a point where we have lots
of network technologies,
LTEM, 2G, 3G 4G, 5G,
red cap and so on.
So you can now select the right network technology
for your connection.
Number two, 10 years ago, IoT was more a technology,
you know, which was used.
And now in our opinion it's an operational asset.
There are so many customers now already
who depend completely on the IoT connections
for their business model,
that it's an operational asset which needs
to be available a hundred percent of the time,
99% is not good enough.
And number three, there have also been
technological developments with regards
to how you access the networks.
It used to be a physical SIM,
which you need to put in there.
Now you have eSIM
where you can switch the SIM over the air.
You have iSIM where it's embedded in the silicon
of a communication module.
And of course, these new technologies
make everything more flexible,
but also post new security risks,
because obviously if you can switch a network over the air,
there's more room for fraud than if it's hard coded
and you can never change it.
<v ->Awesome, thank you.</v>
So Greg, let's dive a little bit into security.
So what are you seeing from the general cybersecurity
landscape that we should be aware of today?
<v ->So there is a lot when we talk about IoT security.</v>
Most of the time, as Sri was mentioning, IoT is growing.
There is more and more connected devices independently
of the type of connectivity, serial connectivity, Wi-Fi,
BLE and all this.
We need to find a way to protect those IoT devices.
When we talk about IoT security,
as we were mentioning also in the beginning,
it's not only on the hardware side,
but we need to see the full value chain
from the production of the device,
when the device will be manufactured
and when the device will be running during the lifetime.
And we need to take care of that since the beginning
of the design of the devices.
Then the device is one thing.
You need to have a secure device.
That's something that is important.
I think Eric was mentioning the eSIM and iSIM
and that in the end is a kind of root of trust,
an hardware root of trust where we can put,
let's say the foundations of the security inside.
But then we have also all, let's say the technology
to exchange the data that needs to be secure.
All the data that will transit from the device
to the application server needs to be secure as well.
And you need also to have the capability
to manage the secure lifecycle of your device
through framework signing service
and different things like that.
So IoT security is big
and it depends also on the type of applications.
What you do with the smart metering
or grid is not the same as a pet tracker.
It's not the same when we are talking about
healthcare or automotive.
That can be linked also to safety.
So there is a lot of things that needs
to be taken into consideration.
<v ->Yeah, yeah.</v>
And I think hopefully we can get a little bit
more into that in the future questions.
'Cause I do think that there's things
that we can learn cross industry, right?
Especially if we're looking at the framework
of end-to-end cybersecurity and looking at an endpoint
or an operating system or how do you encrypt
and secure the channels.
So I think finding similarities
and helping to share that across verticals is important.
But yeah, let's get a little bit
more into that in a bit.
So Trish, last thing in terms of setting the stage
from a perspective, from you.
You have experience across FinTech, across healthcare.
So what are you seeing in terms
of cybersecurity in these areas that we should be aware of?
<v ->Yeah, sorry, no, that's a really great question.</v>
You know, even based on things that Sri was saying,
and Greg was saying, a lot of this,
if you think of it from a security perspective,
the industry itself,
security we have to think of it as being more horizontal.
It is not a vertical play.
Yes, there are differences within the vertical arenas
as to how things are used,
what you need to protect,
what type of data and stuff is critical
to your organization from both an operational and a revenue
and a business perspective.
But at the same point,
you need to think about the fact
that different industries
or different verticals are gonna latch onto security
faster than others will.
I mean, financial services is always
an early adapter from a security perspective.
However, the issues
and the challenges that you see within healthcare
that you see in manufacturing,
that you see in in consumer business,
it's very, very similar.
So you need to think about
how you wanna protect this from a holistic perspective.
And even though you may have a business that has, you know,
multiple different types of security parameters,
you know, you could be a holding company
and you have things in consumer,
you have things in maybe in travel and logistics,
or you know, the different areas,
the threats you need
to also think about are, you know,
how can anybody or what can be used
to potentially get into my infrastructure.
We see a lot of changes right now with zero day attacks.
You know, people don't know how do I, what do I do?
How do I start to do this?
And you feel a lot of people that get this instant,
oh my gosh, how am I gonna handle this scenario
in which you just need to think about it, okay,
you're zero day, things are gonna happen.
Everybody to some extent is going to be attacked
or probably has been and may or may not know it.
You need to think about the fact that, you know what,
we need to put something in place that can start to traverse
and start to understand what's going on
within the infrastructure from the security perspective,
regardless of the type of device.
IoT is a huge threat right now.
It is a big security gap.
Everybody's been talking about the fact
that these devices have kind of grown, you know,
as Sri and everybody said, exponentially.
It's kind of become the wild west
and then everybody's kind of thinking about now going,
I need to build security into this,
but what do I do about those devices
that have sat out there for years?
You know, 'cause IoT devices were put, were, you know,
originally designed to be in areas where you didn't have
to have a person go out to them
or you didn't have to have accessibility.
And it really, you know, was kind of a lone wolf out there.
But now you need to start to think, it's got old hardware,
it may have old firmware,
there may be things hard coded in this.
These are potential threats into your infrastructure.
So regardless of the vertical, you know,
a lot of the challenges are still the same.
It's how you handle those
and think of really what your business priorities are.
<v ->Yeah, thank you Trish.</v>
That was a great lead into this next section,
which I really do wanna have focused on
threats and challenges.
And actually as I was walking over here this morning,
you know, I was thinking about this story
and now it's seven years old,
but when the casino was hacked
because there was a fish tank with a smart thermostat,
had no security on it.
So as we go into this next section,
if anyone else has other stories that they'd like to share,
let's come up with some more relevant ones.
I know there's recently, I think, what is this,
the salt typhoon talking about telecom attacks.
So maybe,
I think there's,
people are,
we're getting a lot better.
We've gotten a lot better at securing enterprise networks,
enterprise devices, servers, laptops,
even within companies.
But then what's the next front that attackers
and bad actors are going after?
It's these, again, maybe smaller devices
that can be turned into to like bot attacks
or just entry ways to get into a corporate network
or into this casino network for example.
Or get into, you know, into a retail facility
because you hacked into the HVAC system.
So let's talk a little bit about some
of those threats and challenges.
And Eric, I would like to go over to you.
So what are come some of the top challenges
that you've heard companies are facing today?
<v ->Well, I'll start by echoing what Trish was saying</v>
is that, you know, depending upon your vertical,
depending upon the services you provide,
depending upon the kind of data you traffic in,
depending upon your geography,
the challenges are going to vary considerably
from company to company, from vertical to vertical.
But there are some practical considerations
that are, if not universal, near universal.
And the way I would shorthand it is resource constraints.
That there is so much that needs
to be done that can be done.
That where there are customer pressures, market pressures,
regulatory pressures that you are under
as a company, especially in the IoT space, to do.
But you have limited resources with which to do it.
And Gregory and I were talking about this
before the panel that a good way to describe that
or to to think about that is as a cost constraint
or the economic pressures in the IoT space.
It's not true for all IoT companies,
but for many they are,
the marketplace competition is fierce
and they are under a lot of pressure
to keep their prices very low.
When your prices are very low,
you have limited resources
with which to address various needs.
Cybersecurity is gonna be chief among those.
And there are lots of companies that, you know,
as Trish said, you said you bolted on afterwards
because when you're first starting out,
you're worried about building it,
you're worried about getting it to market
and you're worried about actually
selling it at a competitive price.
And so a lot of companies are coming late to cybersecurity
in their products, in their space in their services,
not necessarily out of either ignorance
or, you know, disdain for security practices,
but just because they have other priorities there.
The incentive structure
and the risks in the marketplace are structured around
a narrow focus on delivering
and delivering at low price points.
And you know, while this is certainly true
for inexpensive consumer electronics,
it also applies to areas
where there are components going into automobiles
and airplanes where there's still a lot of pressure
to keep prices low and there's a lot of competition
and it's a dynamic marketplace.
So it is, again, sort of this lack of resources,
economic resources to be able to devote to a complex problem
where there isn't one single, you know, biggest challenge.
It really just depends upon what you're doing,
where you are and what sort of threats you face.
<v ->Yeah, yeah, great points.</v>
I think a lot of it is about,
it's an ROI decision too,
designing and security
and also sometimes taking a risk of a breach.
So I know at a key factor we've done a study
where it's, you know,
the cost of a breach could be $2 million.
So do you wanna just pay that
or do you wanna be more prescriptive
upfront for preventative?
<v ->Well, and it's worth noting that,</v>
and we're gonna talk, I'm sure,
a little bit later about
the regulatory schemes that are now entering
into the marketplace globally.
But you know, leading up to this point,
it was really that cost risk calculus,
cost benefit analysis of,
okay, if I don't really go do everything
that I should be doing with respect to cybersecurity,
what's the impact?
And part of it depends on how likely
am I to suffer a breach.
And a lot of companies are willing to roll the dice
and just say, you know,
it's hard to internalize a cost
that hasn't happened and that might not.
<v ->Right. Yeah. Yes.</v>
Yeah, but yeah,
let's talk about the certifications in a bit.
So next question.
So Trish and maybe also Erik,
about connectivity and risks
around connectivity and infrastructure.
So what challenges, I think if we go specifically
into that sort of network layer, are you guys seeing?
<v ->Yeah, so I mean if you think about it</v>
from the connectivity perspective,
from the cellular side of the house,
I mean your cellular traffic runs
through your existing, you know,
infrastructure and everything.
But the challenge that you have is you start
to think about it not just from connectivity.
And of course I'm gonna bend more toward the security
side because that is my background.
You have to think about the fact that a lot of that data
that's brought in from the connectivity
is very much aggregated.
So you don't know.
And what happens if you have one device that's going awry
or if you have one device that has been,
has really opened an attack surface for you,
how do you figure out which device it is versus selling
or setting off everything, okay, this business unit,
'cause that's part of that's gotta be shut down
or you know, no connectivity
till we figure out what's going on.
What's really important to think about from the connectivity
side of the house is how do you start
to bring all this together
and really understand it from a device perspective?
You know, 'cause you wanna be able to frame that one device,
look at what it's interacting with,
what it's potentially dialing out,
is it going out to a command and control center?
Is there malware threats associated with it?
All of these, you know,
and I'm, like I said, gonna bring in this back
to the security side.
It's very similar to what you've done
from a network side of the house,
but you also need
to think about it from the connectivity side of the house.
Do you have things to add to that, Erik, or?
<v ->Look, yeah, I totally agree</v>
with everything you've been saying.
Regarding your question,
how important is it on connectivity?
Think about it.
Connectivity, something that is not connected
can only be attacked if you go physically there, right?
A computer which doesn't have an internet connection.
<v Ellen>Yeah.</v>
<v ->You need to physically go there to manipulate.</v>
So therefore connectivity is actually the entry point
for any remote attacker
and therefore you need to secure it appropriately.
And I think we'll talk,
the next questions about how we do that, right?
<v ->Okay, great.</v>
Thank you.
Okay, so Greg, let's talk a little bit about
how do you see companies managing IoT security
when it's massive deployments?
<v ->That's a very good question</v>
because I think as Sri was mentioning,
we see there are more and more IoT devices
and when you manage those type of devices
and a million of devices that will be connected,
you need to start from the beginning.
If in terms of company you don't have a mindset
of security by design, then it's a little bit too late.
There are things that can be done, you can patch,
there are things that can be done.
But once the device is in the field,
if you don't have remotely,
the capacity to do something is gonna be very complex.
So the way to do it,
there are different steps that you need to do.
And it's the same as some organization has done in the past.
We're talking about the IT, IT has done it.
The OT monitoring, we managed security services,
they're doing it.
But it takes time, it's a process.
And every actors on the IoT must be part of this journey.
It's coming from the silicon vendor
who are bridging a little bit more and more security inside.
It's the device maker who need also to pro,
let's say to program and to help the end user
to have some secret mechanism on it.
It's also the service provider,
the one who will deploy the device
to also have the capability to do things.
So we really need to think as a kind
of a 360 offering from the design
up to the devices in the field
and then the refurbish as well,
because this is where it is gonna be key.
You need to think globally to that.
<v ->Yeah, that's a great answer, thank you.</v>
Okay, so we're gonna start
to shift into the solutions.
So, but before we do that, so Sri maybe one last question
to kinda help lead us into that.
So how is the cybersecurity community developing
best practices and guidelines
to help companies navigate these challenges
that we've just been talking about?
So what are you seeing in from that space?
<v ->Well, so it's been kind of interesting</v>
because people look at it, mean if you took,
if you take a typical IoT system,
there's a device, there's a network, there's an application.
And so when they come up with standards
and regulations around,
or come up with standards to say how to secure this,
they're looking at it from network and application,
which are easy.
I shouldn't say easy.
There are existing best practices that they can bring to it
to make it all happen like from the IT side, right?
But devices are very unique.
It's not a laptop, it's not something like router
or something that's known.
So now device ecosystems are very fragmented,
because it's where you create a device
for a particular use case.
So which means it may have its own operating system
or maybe even a proprietary operating system.
And the skillset to manage those devices
to make sure that those devices are secure,
are really hard.
That's a big challenge, right?
So companies cannot hire enough people
that understand all of that.
So just as you were talking about the whole life cycle,
it's almost like the device manufacturers to make sure
that the skill sets translate,
get sold along with those devices to make sure
that enterprises understand those challenges
of managing those devices.
<v ->Yeah, good, okay.</v>
So let's get into some of the specifics
and thank you Sri.
So Eric, we'll go to you first.
<v ->Sure.</v>
<v ->What key standards are IoT companies needing</v>
to be aware of these days?
'Cause I know there's a lot of 'em.
There's regional ones, there's vertical based ones.
So, but let's just talk about a couple here
that might be very relevant for the group.
<v ->Well, yeah, and I'll,</v>
there's obviously there's a lot to say here,
so feel free to cut me off if we need to move on.
But as we were discussing earlier, you know,
it has historically principally been just a question
of what's the risk, what's the risk of breach,
or you know, some sort of catastrophic loss
and the, you know, potential lawsuits
that might result from that.
Now things have shifted a bit more to the question
of what sort of penalties might I face
if I do end up having a breach
or some operating problem with my system
as a result of cybersecurity.
And I would say that the dominant
force in this arena is the EU Cybersecurity Resilience Act,
which just got finalized at the end of 2024.
You know, it'll begin coming into force in 2026,
but even, and fully enforced in 2027.
But now, you know, well before then, now,
you are seeing companies
that are requiring their vendors
to demonstrate their compliance with the CRA,
because design cycles are long enough that, you know,
you can't say, oh, I'll wait until 2026
and then see whether I or my vendors are in compliance.
You have to be much more proactive than that.
And you know, with the CRA,
the potential penalties are significant,
from massive fines to denial of market access to the EU.
And you know, this is something,
in the same way that California
vehicle emission standards end up, you know,
driving vehicle emission standards
for the entirety of the United States,
the standards that that the EU is setting will
end up driving global cybersecurity standards.
Because as long as you are selling into the EU
or you sell to a company that sells into the EU,
you're going to be subject in one way
or another to the Cyber Resilience Act.
And so this is the conversation
that we are having over and over again.
And it's interesting to note that we've sort
of seen this ratcheting up slowly the awareness
in the United States, I should say,
because, you know, in Europe I think there's been,
whether because of the GDPR
or because, you know, it's obvious
that there's been this strong move in the direction
of cybersecurity regulations
that will carry significant penalties.
There's been, I think higher level of awareness
among European companies
of what is out there now and what is coming.
That awareness is just starting to shift
dramatically in the United States.
We've seen it go gradually shifting,
but it is becoming more pronounced.
Now, and as you mentioned, there are all sorts of standards,
international, regional, vertical specific,
and it's a complicated environment.
But one thing that is,
and the idea of the,
I'm sure that the idea of trying
to figure out how do I comply with all this,
is daunting for most companies,
but the one significant piece
of good news is that these standards, these certifications,
the requirements, they're all borrowing from one another
and they're based on, you know,
a fairly robust set of common criteria.
And it is possible, you know,
to focus on those common criteria.
Once you make sure that your company is aligned with those,
then it's the effort to obtain, you know,
the Singapore certification
or ensure that you're in compliance
with the CRA is not as big of a step.
I don't want to trivialize it,
because it's still,
there are a lot of specifics
in the different regional standards and requirements.
But once you look at those core common requirements,
that are a lot of the very basic blocking
and tackling of cybersecurity.
If you can cross that bar,
you've come a long way towards meeting
the broader and multifaceted requirements
that you see internationally.
<v ->That was great advice.</v>
And I do agree, I feel like the,
I've heard the CRA talked about in the light of GDPR,
but bigger and more impactful.
So it is something that I think is a big deal
and a good point about being a vendor
or a supplier to a larger maybe operator
or OEM machine builder, right?
That you're gonna need to be responsible, so.
<v ->Right.</v>
And this, you know, that construct is one
that you saw play out in the United States
when the US government dating from my time
at the White House in the Obama administration,
there was still high level
of fear about imposing mandatory
cybersecurity regulations on industry, you know,
except with some exceptions.
One being Department of Defense procurement
where Department of Defense
was willing to impose certain requirements
on DOD contractors selling directly into the government.
But those trickle down
and out to all the companies that supply DOD contractors.
And you see the same thing happening with CRA,
with other other cybersecurity regulations.
<v Ellen>Yeah.</v>
Awesome, thank you.
<v ->I think, can I add a little bit to that?</v>
'Cause I think something that's also really important
to think about is,
if you think about it from an organizational perspective,
you've got all of these different regulations
that are coming at you, you're like, what do I do?
And you talked a great deal about the commonalities
between all of 'em, which is important,
but in order to think back
as to how you wanna really protect that,
you've gotta think about the data
and how the data is going to be used
and where the data is of utmost importance.
You know, so you wanna figure out something,
you wanna figure out a way to really,
if you're a global organization,
you have to be able to unify the user experience.
You have to be able to make this work
throughout all of your, you know, organizations globally.
And that's also another part
that I think the regulations
are kind of trying to get there,
but I don't think they quite know how,
because it's really difficult.
I mean, you've got the different verticals,
you've got everything else that's going on.
So, you know, don't panic I guess
is the best thing that I'm trying to lay out here.
You know, just think about what's the core
and what's most important
and gradually get there, you know.
It's like everything else,
it's like putting on one shoe at a time,
dressing in the morning, putting on, you know,
one pant leg at a time.
<v ->Yeah, and I think that's also</v>
why we are here as partners
and cybersecurity experts to sort of help there as well.
So thank you.
So Greg, let's go to your perspective.
How are these regulations driving behavior?
Are you seeing different customers coming to you?
Obviously, Thales has a lot of expertise
around this area,
but what are you seeing from behavior
changes as a result of this?
<v ->So the first is, I think one thing that was said</v>
is that when you are looking at IoT devices,
it's always,
there are IoT devices that are expensive,
but most of them it's, they're very cost sensitive.
So when you are talking about security,
always there is a price.
And in the past it was difficult for people to say,
ah, should I put that on top?
How can I manage it?
And so on.
It's complex.
I already have my IT, so they say, okay,
from the IT infrastructure, maybe I can do something.
But it was limited and that
that was the real difficulty.
Now, when the CRA will impose fines,
the red was already there.
The US trustmark also in the US will come.
I think it's changing completely the mindset
of the overall ecosystem
or the overall value chain on the IoT.
People know, say I have to do something,
I have to protect my device and they will be proactive.
The main difficulty that they have
is that it's not the same when you're talking about security
for the IT or the IT monitoring.,
IoT is completely different and it's new.
And I think with the way we see it,
we see a lot of companies
that are a little bit lost on the regulation,
exactly what it means for them, what they have to do.
If they have to go inside, it means,
I think that was the point of Sri,
they need to have experts
to understand exactly the way to do it.
So they should turn to companies
who can help them on understanding what it means for them.
Making kind of threat assessment, consultancy services,
review all the architecture
just to help them to understand
what are the different things
that they will have to put in place to be compliant
to those regulations and new standards.
So for us and for everyone I think here,
it's a benefit because at least all the things
that we have done,
all the investment that we have done
on cybersecurity will lead
and will path the way to help customer on those engagements.
And we need to support them on making the right
implementation on what they have to do
to be compliant to that.
And I think today we're only talking about compliancy.
If in the future there will be a need also
to certify those products that will come
and that's another step that will come
and when you go for certification,
that's another level of what needs to be done.
<v Eric>Can I just add one thing?</v>
<v Ellen>Yes, please.</v>
<v ->Quickly on,</v>
because you were asking about behavior changes.
<v Ellen>Yep.</v>
<v ->And one of the questions</v>
we're getting a lot and questions,
internal questions that companies are asking
is about supply chain.
And if you look at, you know, the focus of some
of the bigger movements in the United States regulation
of cybersecurity focus around China and supply chain.
And so we get a lot of questions about do I need
to stop using Chinese components?
Do I need to stop having R &amp; D done in China?
And to echo what Gregory was saying,
there's a lot of ambiguity.
It's hard to know exactly
how some of the regulations
and some of the work that Department of Commerce is doing,
whether the connected vehicle rule,
whether they're proposed drone rule,
data centers are next,
there's investigations of wireless routers.
Like, it's hard to know exactly
how this is gonna be enforced
and what limits the US government is going
to impose on supply chain going through China.
Which is an incredibly challenging question,
because the supply chain is inherently global
and most roads go through China on the way
to delivering an IoT product.
And that is a behavioral question that a lot
of companies have been coming to us to ask about.
What do we need to do
with respect to supply chain in order to address
this question about restrictions on supply chain?
<v ->Yeah, that's a great point.</v>
Yeah, I know from my perspective, we, at my company,
we're all about authentication, encryption,
secure connections
and identity based, you know,
with certificates in order to connect to a device
and then be able to push firmware that you have signed
and that you know the origin of that.
So a lot of it is about trust
and establishing trust
at all the layers.
So trusting the hardware and the components
and the chip sets that you're using
and then being able to trust
all the software that runs on it.
So doing the full risk assessments
and understanding are there any open source.
And we've been doing this for years now,
but I think it's becoming more and more important to be able
to know that, you know, what sort of code is running inside
of your devices and inside of the system.
So there's some basic things around, again,
secure firmware updates and update ability
and all of that that I think we're seeing coming out
in these standards that's important
to have processes around.
And it's not just, to Trisha's point earlier,
it's not just once and done, it's an evolution.
And because we've deployed these devices,
whether in a connected vehicle,
whether they're connected smart meters
and they're deployed everywhere
and they're, it's you physically,
it's a big pain to go out to them.
We have to be able to connect them remotely, securely,
to be able to maintain this over time.
So anyway, just a little bit of my side there.
So let's go Erik, from a Vodafone perspective,
what do you guys do
to help your customers navigate this?
<v ->Yep.</v>
<v ->Specifically solution wise?</v>
<v ->Yep, and I think that fits in very well</v>
with what the colleagues here have been saying
also including standards.
So first of all, what we do is for any customer,
we do not just make our own system,
which is the connectivity secure.
We really look from the customer's device
all the way into the customer system,
the transport of data, that needs to be secure.
And we are the specialists
for the connectivity part of this.
And at the same time we also consult the customer
on how to secure their hardware
and how to secure the interfaces we have.
You mentioned it yourself,
our connectivity service is secure by design.
From the beginning we've always watched out
that all the potential entry points
such as entering the data tunnel
or addressing a device is impossible
with our IoT connectivity service.
In previous times, 10 years ago,
lots of IoT companies still put a consumer SIM
into their device.
If you knew the phone number of that consumer SIM,
you could just call it,
reverse engineer some commands
and you're inside the system, that's impossible.
We have authentication mechanisms, we have encryption,
we monitor the data tunnel
and recently we've also started to use AI
in order to understand the specific behavior
of each device, which is out there.
And if a device behaves differently
from the expectation.
If for example, a meter starts sending loads
and loads of data,
even though you only expect the register value,
then we look deeper into that
and see is that a problem?
Finally, we also build on all the investments
into the security systems that Vodafone has done
and we also consult our customers
and we stick to all the standards that you mentioned before
and you also mentioned.
<v ->Okay, thank you.</v>
So Trish, maybe one more for you,
anything else to add about what Aeris does specifically
to help your customers with this?
<v ->Yes, I mean very, very similar.</v>
We, because of the way that Aeris was originally, you know,
brought up and and developed in the industry,
we've been around for more than 30 years,
and the fact that we were originally built
on a connectivity, we have our own core network.
We partner with all of the big MNOs, MVNOs,
or I shouldn't say all, almost all of them,
in which we help them, you know,
as they're protecting the infrastructure
and those types of things,
we look at it from a perspective of our,
it's a new product we're getting ready
to launch out called our watchtower solution,
in which we can sit there
and look at suspicious, malicious,
abnormal activity that is occurring within the devices.
We allow you to turn around
and think about it from a per device perspective.
Like I'd mentioned earlier,
if I'm seeing some type
of anomaly or if I'm seeing the device all
of a sudden calling out, I might wanna say, you know what?
I need to sequester this one device
without taking the whole infrastructure down
or without taking the whole group down,
because you need to maintain
some of this interaction that's going on.
But our solution itself allows you to really look at it
and start to put together policies and programs.
And because of the fact that we have done this
from what we classified as as the core network
and working with all the big partners out there,
the carrier partners,
it allows us to really create a unified user experience.
So what you can create from policies,
regardless of which carrier you're using under the covers,
really allows us to, you know,
or you as the vendor,
the company to turn around and say, hey,
I'm gonna have this type of user experience
regardless if I'm, you know,
working throughout from a global perspective.
You also need to think about, you know, there's a lot
of great technology that has been put into play.
We just depend to an add on.
We're not telling you to get rid
of your existing infrastructures.
It's not something that you want to,
because you're always gonna harden your infrastructure.
You're gonna harden what's what's happening,
you know, and what's going on.
But you wanna be able to add to it
and really think more from the device perspective.
And that's one of the key areas
that Aeris has been able to really focus on lately.
<v ->Okay, thank you.</v>
Okay, so just looking at time,
I think this will probably be our last question.
So Sri like to get your thoughts on this.
I mentioned it in the beginning
and obviously we've had a lot of conversation here,
good advice from some very experts in this space,
thought leadership,
what is IMC as an organization doing
to help make and drive awareness?
And then also maybe more practical advice
about what to do, really, like where do you put your money
and your budgets in 2025 to help start
to tackle some of these things?
<v ->Yeah, I think that's a great question.</v>
So till now, all of the good chunk
of the standards have been very vertical oriented.
They've been per industry and so on.
But what we've seen from the regulatory side
is that with the CRA and so on, it's very horizontal.
And so now,
and just as you were mentioning, right?
There are some core standards like NIST2
and the NIST that have been added into that.
So there's a lot of commonality
that we can actually take and we can make it practical.
So IMC is partnering with GCF,
which is a global certification forum
and we've created a joint task force to actually explore
how we can create practical guidelines to make sure
that we can have the IoT ecosystem
adopt those practical guidelines
to be secure and also be compliant with CRA
and all the other emerging regulations on it.
<v Ellen>Awesome, thank you.</v>
<v ->And this joint task force is open</v>
to the membership and so we would welcome more members
to actually come in and participate in that,
so you can contribute your ideas
and see how we can take existing standards
and make it more tailored to what we want to do.
<v ->Great, thank you.</v>
Well, as I mentioned, this was a very quick session
with a lot of topics to cover.
So first of all I'd like to say thank you
to all the panelists for coming here,
for sharing your expertise
and bringing the conversation to light a bit more.
So we'll be here staying after.
I think the next session starts in about 20 minutes.
So feel free to come up to us
and ask any more questions or feedback.
Always welcome to that.
And again, here's a list of some
of the member companies of the IMC.
If you have questions about IMC, happy to answer that too.
Love to have more people in the conversation.
So thank you everyone and enjoy the rest of the show.