<v Melissa>Good morning, everybody.</v>
I'm Melissa Hunter from Family Video Network,
and today, we're going to be talking about, like Robin said,
AI and kids and responsibility,
and AI is not something that's coming in the future.
It's already here.
Our children are already interacting with it,
whether they know it or not, whether we know it or not.
So, we're going to be talking today to a great panel.
I'm going to introduce them first.
We'll let them introduce themselves briefly.
Then we've got some great data and insights,
a couple of products to share,
and then we're going to talk about
what goes into creating responsible AI for children.
So, I'm going to start off with you, Karen.
<v ->Hi everybody, Karen Wong from IDEO.</v>
I'm based in San Francisco.
Thank you for being here.
Thank you for participating in what Robin described as,
and I agree, a very important conversation.
Within IDEO, which is a design agency,
I'm in the portfolio called the Play Lab. Super fun.
Our secret sauce is understanding
how play can unlock joy and engagement,
and obviously, thinking about
how youth and kids are moving the needle
on how we interact with emerging technology.
Ages ago, we made the first digital apps for Sesame Workshop
and so, of course, it makes sense for us
to be thinking about the interactions
that kids are having with technology,
whether it's chatbots, smart devices, all those things.
So, very happy to be here and looking forward to share more.
<v ->Hi, everyone. Thanks so much for coming.</v>
My name is Joshua Garrett.
For the last 25 years,
I've worked with a company called Creativity
to help toy companies around the world make toys,
thousands of products and some of the biggest,
most successful toys over the last 25 years.
And in the last couple years I've been focused
as well as being chief creative officer
for a company called Readyland.
And you'll see more about that later.
<v ->I'm Nelo Lucich, the CEO of Skyrocket Toys.</v>
So, we're a tech toy maker.
I've been in the toy industry
my entire career for way too long.
We've always sort of had a focus on tech,
tech-inspired inspiration or innovation.
So, you know, AI is just one of the new technologies
that we're trying to figure out
what new play experiences we can bring so.
<v Melissa>Awesome, thank you.</v>
So, we are going to start off with you, Karen.
I'm going to give you the clicker.
We're all going to ask the clicker gods
to make sure that it works,
and you have some really interesting data and insights
on what's already going on with Gen Z and kids.
And I find this to be very, very hopeful.
So, I hope you all really pay attention
and find this as interesting as I did.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
So, Gen Z, we're usually, talking about
ages 13, teenagers who are coming of age,
up to people who are just finishing college.
And as mentioned with the Play Lab,
thinking about youth, kids, and family.
It's not just people who are gonna one day be using it,
but they're using it now.
They're the ones that are forming their opinions
about your future products and services.
And if anything, they've actually,
gotten some really interesting opinions.
I say that, because they were the ones that grew up
with the unintended consequences of social media.
They started feeling all the angst and shame
that we didn't realize would happen when you put
these kind of tools into hands of kids and families
when these products weren't designed for them.
So, we at IDEO started two years ago, January, 2023
before most schools had created
their ChatGPT rules and regulations.
Just doing some scanning, asking some questions,
and eventually, a few co-design projects.
So, I'll be sharing this morning
a little bit about what we're learning.
That question is what if the tech-savvy generation
isn't buying it anymore?
We have a lot of really interesting
opinions and assumptions in our heads
that these are the ones that are gonna be
the first users and the first movers.
And in many ways they are,
but they're the ones that also
come with the most informed opinions.
Not just about how badly the tech feels,
how cringey some of it might be landing,
but also how it's affecting their sense of humanity.
Every person in this room who's creating a product,
especially with emerging tech,
you're kind of torn between how do we move fast to win
and how do we slow down to de-risk?
That's something at IDEO with any product,
whether it's with Gen Z or any other customer
we'd be thinking about.
And so, kind of to share a little bit about
what we've been doing for the past two years
and are still doing now,
we started doing some data scanning.
We dug ourselves into TikTok, into YouTube, into Reddit,
what were kids already posting about
when it came to asking these questions.
Then we started building out these real prototypes,
super scrappy, just in real-life use cases.
And we moved toward understanding the personalities
that kids wanted to interact with,
including things like using role play to really get
what are the emotions, what are the whys,
why would you be using this?
Not just how, but why.
And two areas of tension.
The first one is creative expression,
and I'm sure we will have a lot of conversation later
about how these tools are affecting our creative process.
And the second one about human relationships.
The interesting thing is, of course,
this matters for all of us as adults in the room,
but we think especially coming of age,
what does it mean to unlock and express ourselves?
What does it mean to form friendships
on the playground online?
These are things that really affect that formative process.
And so, just a few snapshots of all the fun ways
we've been able to dig ourselves
into spending time with youth and teens.
Everything from having them edit our Figma prototypes
to acting like robots themselves,
if they had to give the voice of the robot or the chatbots.
Here's a few provocative ones.
We really put tangible expressions of what it would be like
to interact with a potential AI tool.
And so, we ask questions like,
"Okay, you've recently had a friend breakup.
What kind of intervention do you want?
Do you want someone to counsel you through that process
or do you want someone to kind of replace that friend
for the time being just so you can, you know,
back yourself out from that relationship?"
So, by asking really tangible questions,
by putting prototypes in front of youth,
we were able to co-design to few insights.
This one always gets all audience members.
We put out a provocation expression of
imagine you could have an AI-trained on your preferences,
on your personalities, live your life for you.
Imagine they could swipe your Tinder for you.
They would have the achy conversations
or they would go through the awkward introductions,
you know, new person in school.
And we heard some really interesting things.
I wanna go on a bad date for myself
and I wanna have that bad vacation.
There was a really interesting sign
that being able to live life for yourself
is that badge of honor.
The next one here, I would prefer to give opportunities
to people over technology.
I think these are the ones,
and again, they have seen what it's like
when people feel replaced.
I'll definitely share a lot more.
But starting off with a few key learnings.
Gen Z's value advice and perspective from lived experience.
There's something about designing for friction.
I'm gonna say that again, designing for friction.
In our age of optimization, in our age of assuming
that everything should move as fast as possible
to make life as smooth as possible,
there's something about the challenge
and that comes back to play, right?
Why would we spend so much time
to hit a ball several hundred yards away?
There's something about the joy of achieving,
the joy of overcoming challenge,
the joy of moving through your first friend breakup
or your boyfriend or girlfriend breakup
that makes you into a person.
And as many times as helicopter parents or as people
who are designing technology,
assume that the smoothest possible path
is the best possible path.
There's some pushback there.
And Gen Z's don't yet trust AI
to understand the nuance of their lives.
You're coming out of an age
where you have a lot of conflicting opinions.
There's tensions in what you like and what you say you want.
And these may change four times a day.
For anyone who has teenagers in the room,
you're familiar with that,
but even adults in the room.
You know, what we say isn't always what we really mean.
And so, how would we expect something
to be just trained on this data that we're giving it?
That's an opinion I'm hearing a lot.
And the last one, gen Z is greatly valued experiences
to help them reflect, imagine, and express themselves.
I was thinking and talking to a lot
of really wonderful creator tool makers
and there was something beautiful about
the unleashing of potential and power that we're seeing,
but there's also a desire to grow in your craft,
to become better as you work through.
What might some of the onboarding journeys look like
when a young child has access to these tools
and you're now asking them
to define themselves as a creative.
What are ways that we can lean into
other aspects of what it means to be a person
and what it means to tap into your creative expression
and what the stories you really wanna tell.
How can we be surrounding them with these opportunities?
A few opportunities and side by side here,
I can go into them more later,
but yeah, I'm also just gonna throw this up here.
We love co-designing with youth.
We think it's important.
Everything from talking to them to creating hypothesis
less concepts based on what they're telling us.
Getting, again, as I mentioned
into the emotions of the interaction.
Again, not just the technology and what it can do,
but why and how does it make you feel?
And from there being able to identify new ideas.
I'm just gonna say we love working on these tools
and here's some more information about what we are writing.
Everything I've just described,
we are happy to share with all of you,
because we believe it's important that other people,
adults in the room, decision makers,
should be able to access these principles.
Let's talk a bit more later.
<v ->Thank you so much.</v>
So, we're gonna pass it off to Josh
and you're gonna share what you're doing at Readyland
and how AI is involved in this process.
<v ->So, that's Readyland, which currently</v>
is a set of five physical, old-fashioned books
that kids can read with currently an Alexa.
And it brings the books to life
in a way that has never happened before.
They talk to the characters, they play games,
they make choices on adventures,
and every time they go through the book it can change.
And it's had a remarkably positive feedback from users.
We're like 4.8 stars on Amazon
and everyone loves this new experience.
And as you look at it,
I think you can imagine like we could use AI
in a whole lot of different ways in Readyland.
And one thing I just wanna mention is that
a lot of people when they think of
AI for kids or in general, they think of chatbots,
like that's the expression of AI.
But AI is a tool, it's a powerful tool
that you can use in many, many different ways.
And what we always wanna do is
focus on the product, not the technology, right?
So, for Readyland where AI currently is for us,
we are not gonna use it to generate content
that goes to kids without us knowing what kids get.
We are not gonna use it to have synthesized speech,
say things that we're not aware what it's saying.
But what we have found is incredibly powerful
in the tool set of AI
is we can use it to much better understand
what children are saying to us, right?
So, in the examples that you see on a page,
there might be 20, 30 things
and a kid can describe what they're seeing.
And before AI, we have to think of all the different ways
a kid might say what they're looking at
and try to understand so that
we can give them back the content
that we as human experts have created for them.
In some models we've been testing with AI
where before, for example, in a book you have, you know,
two bats in the distance in the sky.
A kid might have to say, "Bats, I see bats."
Now a kid can say, "Those little things in the sky,
those little birds."
They can say it in all sorts of different ways.
And with AI we can then funnel them to the content
that we much better understand they're trying to get to
and then give that to them.
So, that's our focus on AI right now,
but there's so many different ways to use AI.
But the big thing for me and for us
is that AI is a new technology
and there's a certain magic in that,
that magic is fading fast
and you can't focus just on the technology
to provide magic to kids.
You have to focus on the product and the experience,
which the technology can help improve.
<v Melissa>Absolutely, and now we have Nelo.</v>
And Nelo, you brought a friend too, didn't you?
<v ->Yes, I've brought my friend Poe here.</v>
So, this is Poe, the AI bear.
So, this is a product that we've been working on
before there was AI.
So, we've had this concept around our company
for, you know, more than five years
trying to come up with a way
to allow kids to make stories themselves
and choose what they put into their story.
So, before there was AI,
we looked at a lot of different ways to do it
and it was just not really practical
or it wasn't cost effective.
And so, when AI really became,
generative AI really became in the forefront.
It just gave us an opportunity to do something
that we had really been wanting to do.
So, this product has been an incredible amount of work.
Like working with AI is a daunting task
for a product that's purely generative.
So, our product is generating live content for kids
and we have guardrails around that
to sort of reign in what gets in
both through within the AI itself
and then on top of that in our system,
but we control it from the input side and the outgoing side.
So, if we control what the child
is able to put into the story,
that greatly improves what comes out.
So, since there's no wifi here,
we'll off to pretend like this is a live demo
and I'll kind of walk you through
what the app would do if we had wifi.
So first, obviously, because it's generated on the fly,
we can do voice and the app localized in over 30 languages.
So, people in every country can pretty much use Poe.
First thing, we take some
very basic information from the child,
their first name, their age, and their birthday
only to be used for recognizing their birthday
and things like that.
We don't use the information
or pass it to the AI for any other thing, but that.
On obviously, pronouns.
Then when you come to the main menu,
we try to keep it really simple,
because we know that there's some circumstances
where parents will be doing this for their kids
and then making stories
and using it as bedtime stories for their kids.
And there'll be other older kids
that'll be using it theirselves.
So, we wanted to keep the interface very simple.
So, the bear's obviously dynamic,
his firmware can be updated,
he can be, you know, on the fly, be adjusted.
This is kind of showing your story library.
So, after you create stories, they're yours
and you'll have them in your library forever.
The bear himself can hold, Poe can hold about 20 stories.
So, you can choose what you wanna
load into your bear's library.
And now the process of actually creating a story.
So first, you choose a genre, which I clicked too soon,
but I could go back actually, maybe not.
So, you choose a genre of a story.
So, if you want a mystery, or an adventure story,
or whatever kind of story you want,
then you get to choose from over 500 different characters,
icons, cities, places, plot ideas,
kind of anything you can think of.
So, you can imagine what the story is you wanna make.
And pretty much the stuff you need
to make that story is in our system.
And then you'll choose all your icons,
dah, dah, dah, dah, dah.
So, I'm gonna choose a bear, Poe,
I'm gonna put Poe himself in the story.
We'll choose a helpful robot to be his sidekick,
also the protagonist in the story.
So, you can choose who the protagonist is
and who the antagonist is in the story
by selecting him either green or red.
As you can see, that's the hacker,
he's one of the bad guys in our story.
The story's obviously, a little bit older.
Seeing that, you know, I'm a 10-year-old at heart,
I'm gonna make a story that appeals to me.
So, you're kind of getting
the type of story that I would make.
We have an evil magician.
So, after you do all that, got one more guy,
mind control and then you're gonna get a location.
I added CES Las Vegas just for this event.
Just so you could see what he would do.
So, the actual content that I'm gonna play,
then you hit Next, he's gonna generate the story.
This might be sped up two times,
but it probably takes about 15 seconds
to generate the text and audio.
So, we're gonna simulate a streaming experience here.
So, let's figure out how to go.
This is an actual story that I made
with that exact prompt not modified.
Hold on.
He's been on the sitting for a long time so.
<v Poe>"Mysterious Mind Control Caper".</v>
<v Nelo>Okay, that's this title.</v>
<v ->Hey there, Nelo.</v>
It's a bright and shiny January morning.
The perfect time for another story.
Did you know that in Las Vegas where our story takes place,
they have a gigantic Ferris wheel called The High Roller?
It's taller than the Statue of Liberty.
<v ->So, he'll pull in real-world events in places</v>
based on the setting that you choose.
<v ->What if I told you there's a mystery</v>
waiting to be unraveled at the Consumer Electronics Show?
There's excitement in the air and Poe is on the case.
We'll need to keep our eyes peeled for clues
and outwit some sneaky characters.
What do you say we jump into it?
The story is called "The Mysterious Mind Control Caper".
At the bustling Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas,
inventors, tech enthusiasts.
<v ->So, I'm not gonna play the whole story,</v>
but I'll play a couple parts just so you can see
how it's gonna weave these things in.
<v ->The ever curious AI story bear</v>
accompanied by his quirky sidekick,
a helpful robot named Bebop.
As they wandered through the exhibits,
Poe noticed something peculiar.
Attendees seemed to be moving in a trance-like state.
Their expressions blank as if their minds
were somewhere entirely.
Bebop with his digital sensors detected an unusual frequency
emanating from a nearby booth.
<v ->So, I'll stop it there I think.</v>
So, as you can see, whatever you put into the story,
it'll do a really good job
of weaving all those things together.
So, we're controlling the input by limiting the icons
you can choose and the types of characters.
We also give it age parameters.
And so, if you put in that you're a 5-year-old,
you're gonna get simpler text,
you're gonna get simpler words,
lower vocabulary, less word count.
We limit even the icons.
So, if you're a younger child, you'll get less icons
that are more appropriate for younger children.
And just, it's pretty amazing.
Like we got into this product with an expectation
of what the product would be
and like how it actually, came out is like kind of like wow.
Like it's a really good use.
Like he was talking about that, you know,
there's good uses for AI where it can do a good job
and things that are creative
and where it's an extension of me.
I could choose what I wanna put into my story
and it's gonna weave those into a story.
So, it empowers children and it's actually,
a really cool play experience.
Like we had some panels test it
with like large groups of children
and they picked it, like a couple awards picked it,
because they said like the five-year-olds liked it,
because they would make like a simple story
and the 12-year-olds like it,
'cause they could put every crazy thing
they could think about in their story
and get a really weird story.
<v ->That's how I played with it.</v>
I just hit as many buttons as I could at random
and it made a story out of that.
It was really cool, really cool.
<v ->Yeah, and obviously, if you choose things that make sense,</v>
you'll get a more sensical story,
whereas if you put weird stuff in there,
you get weird stuff.
But both are fun, you know?
So, that's Poe.
<v ->That's Poe.</v>
And so, now we'd like to shift a little bit,
because there's so much experience
and knowledge here on this stage
that I think will be really helpful to all of you
to talk about how you guys
and how you're seeing, Karen, people use AI
as a tool for design of products intended for children.
Anybody who wants to jump in on that?
<v ->I'll jump in.</v>
So, we use AI in development
and I think the best way to think about how we use AI
is as a really great brainstorming partner, right?
So, if you have experience with brainstorms,
one classic way to brainstorm
is just throw out a lot of ideas no matter how crazy.
Just throw out a ton of ideas.
And a great thing about, you know, I use ChatGPT
and you can do this with Claude or Gemini or whatever,
but is just to say, "Give me 20 ideas about this."
It's important to note that
never yet has it given me an idea
that I'm like, "That's the answer."
But it gives me ideas that sometimes
spark further thinking in the development group.
And it actually, has been very beneficial that way.
And another area is in terms of creating stories,
or rhymes, or lyrics, or jokes, you know,
I need give me 10 jokes about an owl.
They're usually really bad jokes,
but they will spark.
<v ->You get one that's good.</v>
<v ->Maybe get one that's okay,</v>
but then it'll spark, oh, you know,
something about an owl to make a joke about
that I hadn't thought of.
It's, you know, the fact that its head
moves around in 360 degrees or something like that.
So, that's kind of how we use it.
<v ->Yeah, we use it in a lot of similar ways.</v>
I mean, it's not gonna give you reliably good answers,
but it'll give you a list of reasonable options.
And so, it's really good for brainstorming,
for trying to name things, I mean there's all sorts of,
we use it for coding.
Like, I don't know, AI is a really, really powerful tool.
It just is some things and isn't other things.
And I think in the kind of environment we're in,
there's a lot of anti-AI backlash
and it's kind of thought to be maybe more than what it is.
<v ->I would build on what my panelists</v>
have just described about lo-fi prototyping.
And so, at IDEO, every time we try
to do a design research interview or observation,
we wanna put something tangible
in front of who the participants are
to really get them to react
to the heart or the core of whatever that concept is.
So, similarly, after ideation,
you sometimes wanna bring in a sketch
or a little more fleshed idea
and it's not the idea that makes it to the end stage,
however it's something that's just tangible enough.
So, whether it's generating image for us, you saw,
we actually, just generated a bunch of scripts
asking again, for instance, if you to interact with AI,
what would it be like?
And AI did a really good job impersonating itself
in some cringey and weird ways.
It also tried to do a pretty,
actually did a pretty good job of sounding very natural.
So, we put all those scripts in front of kids and youth
and had them read them aloud and try to respond to be like,
oh, I don't really quite like how that landed
or that sentiment felt weird.
Again, but as everything my panelists have described,
it's for the sense of provoking,
for the sense of getting a bit more tangible
and helping people spark those ideas and responses.
<v ->And I just want to add one thing</v>
that you made me think of is,
I do a lot of art direction of artists,
but I am not an artist,
and I found it incredibly helpful, the image generation,
to make storyboards and I can sit there
and generate images and I'm like,
yeah, that's kind of what I'm thinking.
Then pass it on to the real artists
who then can much better understand.
So, as a kind of translation tool from thoughts to images,
it's been very, very helpful.
<v ->Yeah, I love that you all speak of it as a tool,</v>
because that's what it really is.
It's, you know, like years ago people were worried
about kids in the internet, you know,
and how they were gonna use that.
And some of those things have come true,
but in reality to them it's just a tool to access the world.
You know, it has not become embedded in their brain.
So, I'd like to shift a little bit to talk about,
so we talked about how people are using it for design.
Can you tell me a little bit about
what guardrails exist in AI
when you are talking about designing for children?
<v ->So, I think that at least ChatGPT</v>
has some internal guardrails.
If you say the content is for children,
the reliability of those guardrails is a little bit suspect,
but you'll definitely get a tighter control
over any sort of inappropriate content,
any sort of sexual content, offensive content.
And even in general though, I think,
all of the AI companies realize that,
that sort of moderation is a big part of their challenge,
because they're trying to keep an image
that it can be relied on to do customer service
or to be, you know,
to be a corporate-facing front for your company.
So, it's a lot of the same challenges
as being safe for kids.
They wanna have control over what it does,
but being that it's not always the way it works
is just not controllable.
There's definitely a degree of randomness to it,
but they have two layers of checking.
They have second AI that's reading the content
of the AI that generates the content
to just check it for content,
which actually, helps with the moderation piece.
<v ->I'd like to mention, I think</v>
that when we think about safety for kids with AI,
there's multiple levels of what that means, right?
On the one hand it's, you know,
does it drop F-bombs all the time, right?
I think that's pretty well covered at this point.
But there's a whole other aspect of
is the content it's generating,
and I'm talking about generating content for kids,
and at Readyland we don't do that at this point,
but when you do generate for content for kids,
is your product such that it's critical that,
that content is accurate, you know?
Or is it more like Nelo's solution, which is fantastic
that it's about creativity and exploration?
If things are a little wonky, that's fine, right?
But I think just even a month ago,
in all the major chat services,
you asked how many Rs are in the word strawberry,
they'd all say two, right?
So, if you're building a product
that's really focused on accuracy and information,
it's a huge hill.
If you're building a product that's focused on
fun and exploration and creativity,
you don't have to worry about that so much.
So again, it's really about the product and the tool set
and then what you have to do to make sure it's appropriate.
<v ->Something that Josh said,</v>
which totally resonates with how we function at IDEO
is about bringing the human first
and not letting technology dictate the types of use cases.
And so, something that comes to mind is,
as I was researching previously,
just general online safety for children, kids,
and youth these days, the word stranger danger,
I'm sure many of us grew up with that.
That phrase doesn't apply.
We're used to talking to strangers online on forums.
It's very normal to ask the public
for opinions and questions.
So, I think something I would throw back as an opportunity
is how do we think about what it's like
to talk to a potential stranger,
which might be a chatbot, which might be a product,
which might be any sort of service.
I think there's a need and a hill
about reframing what it's like to interact with an unknown.
And that's, I think on us as parents,
designers, educators, caretakers,
to really think about our relationship with the technology.
Do you have something?
<v ->Yeah, I was just gonna say like</v>
to the design side like,
there has to be a human element at some level
and there has to be a concept that's the AI is driving
that is more than just the AI.
And I think that's a mistake that people make
is there's a new technology
and people will put it in every single product,
whether it makes sense or not.
Your refrigerator and your toaster and your air fryer
and you know, like every product has it.
So, I think it's the use case first.
Figure out the product you wanna make
and then find the technology
that is gonna help you facilitate that feature
or that sort of play pattern.
<v ->Right, and I think it goes, you know,</v>
as parents we are looking for ways
to grab a few minutes here and there
and things like Poe and Readyland
and they can give you those few minutes,
but at the same time you need to stay aware.
You need to know what's going on,
you need to still be in the area.
You know, you should never really be leaving our children
alone with technology, if we can avoid it.
So, taking it from there,
there was something on one of our calls
that I thought that you said, Karen,
and you correct me, if I'm wrong,
but talking about the things that Gen Z are enjoying doing
and probably younger generations are too with AI
and it was really about creativity.
It wasn't so much about talking to a chatbot.
Can you sort of elaborate a little bit?
<v ->Sure. So, stepping back a few paces,</v>
in general, I think there's a lot of
alignment around productivity.
Something can help me organize my calendar,
if something can help me with my essay a bit, right?
There's a lot of things about saving time,
but then I guess the question is,
where do you wanna save time on?
Do I need to speed up this part of my life
and process for the sake, because I can.
And so, when it comes to things like creativity,
it was cool as I think my panelists have described
about having a thought partner,
but there's something very different when,
you know, your kid hands you something
and they're so proud of it,
'cause you put it on the refrigerator, they own it,
they know they made it.
There's something different
and I think we still need to explore when it comes to
who gets to feel like they've been accomplished,
who gets to feel that sense of reward,
because they work through the challenge
in that problem space.
And so, a lot of teenagers are, again,
creating incredible content with these video editing tools,
video generator tools, script generator tools, everything.
It's so fun to watch where their ideas
get to come out into reality.
So, at the same time there's a bit more nuance to ask,
which parts though they're trying to shortcut through.
I was just talking to some colleagues
in the entertainment industry
and it was really cool to be like,
yeah, the things that make movie editing
at a large studio much faster
we now have access to, that is incredible.
And feels much more democratized in that way.
But when it comes to owning the final product,
when it comes to refining an idea,
there's still, as Nelo described,
that final human touch that makes it yours.
And so, I'm seeing a lot
and I'd love to hear other people's opinions
on where that nuance comes in
when you get to feel like this art is mine.
<v ->That is a good question.</v>
And I know that, that is, my son is 21
and he could care less for chatbots,
but creating videos and it is an interesting space,
because as we just heard,
when Nelo and Josh were talking about
how they use AI in their development, it was a tool,
but the end product, the AI didn't create
that end product, right?
It was all of the people that work at your companies
who came together and came up with the ideas
and refined the ideas.
So, I think that's just really interesting
that technology can only take us
so far in the creative process
and then they still need us,
they still need the human beings.
We're still valid.
<v ->Yeah. You know, I think one of the errors</v>
that people make in making products for kids is they,
first of all, a lot of people who are technically minded
see a new technology and they say, "Hey, this is magical."
<v ->Shiny.</v>
<v ->Oh it's gonna be magical for kids.</v>
Now, first of all, kids don't see magic in the same way
that grown up engineers see magic, right?
And secondly, what's really important
is the magic of technology fades really fast.
I think kids are already getting used to AI.
You know, there was a time when
having an iPhone and touching a picture
and watching it move under your finger
was mind blowingly magical.
It's not magical anymore, right?
So, I think the critical thing is
in designing these products,
you need human beings who have the experience
of developing for kids
what is a fun, compelling, magical thing
that has nothing to do,
when the technology is gone is it still fun and magical?
I think that's critical.
<v ->I love that.</v>
<v ->Yeah, and I think the tools</v>
extend your capabilities for kids.
Depending on your level of skill,
you can use AI to greatly expand
what you're able to do yourself creatively.
Like if you're an artist,
but you want to program your toy somehow,
or your thing, or your art exhibit you're making,
you can use the AI to generate the code.
So, I think it gives you capabilities
that are a little bit beyond that are your core skills
to sort of enhance the overall.
<v ->Totally, one of the principles we had up there was</v>
enhance my abilities don't replace them.
They're coming to age and forming their identity.
They're coming to understand their passions.
Let's give them space to do that
without just eliminating all those
fun, meaningful, life-formative aspects.
<v ->And I think Gen Z is to some extent,</v>
just from my own observations,
they're not technophobes by any stretch of the imagination,
but they do have really good boundaries
around where they want the technology
to intersect with living their lives.
And sometimes I think it's better than mine, honestly.
I really do.
In the few minutes we have left,
I'd just like to open it up to you to ask you all,
where do you think AI can take parents and children
going into the future in terms of
expanding creativity, imagination, where are we going?
Don't everybody answer at once.
<v ->That's a tough question.</v>
I have a crystal ball.
Hold on, et me look.
<v ->No, getting back to my theme of making great products.</v>
I do think it enhances the ability
to make better or different great products for kids.
You know, our books, for example,
a kid can read it 20 times and it's different every time.
That has never been available before.
A kid can talk to the character in a book,
that has never been available before.
And that's not, you know, we're not using AI so much,
but voice recognition and computer, everything.
All these technologies expand the possibility
for a new type of experience.
And I think when designed well
by people who know how to design for kids,
that can actually, make the world a better place for kids.
<v ->Yeah, and I think it can also for toys, you know,</v>
the dream is always to have your toy feel alive.
It's a challenge to do and I don't know if we're there yet,
but I think there's a world
where you can start to weave in interactivity
to toys in a way they feel much more alive
and the content feels fresh.
So, you're not hearing the same sounds 100 times in a row.
You know, you're actually getting interesting content
every time you play with it.
<v ->I think something I think a lot about</v>
is deepening the relationships
within existing communities and families.
And I was thinking about, you know,
a really great parent, a great teacher
knows their child and knows what they're interested in.
I think the big bucket, we call it personalized learning,
but imagine if that personalized learning journey
was something that the family could go on together, right?
This week you like manatees and you wanna go to
the very end of that rabbit hole about manatees.
And maybe it's just,
because they like the shape of their bodies.
We don't know the color of their skin,
but like being able to access that endless library
of possibilities and prompts
and being able take that journey together,
'cause a lot of times I hear from a lot of parents,
or especially as they reach an older age,
you know, I just don't know what my kid is thinking anymore.
And imagine this opportunity
to go on that journey of discovery together.
I do think there's a lot that can be enabled
by this very generative and explorative technology.
<v ->I love that. I absolutely love that.</v>
And I think that's a really great note for us
to finish up on.
And you know, the message that we've tried to communicate is
AI is a great tool for creativity and imagination.
AI can be safe for children.
And the people that are creating products
that in some way use AI,
whether it's in the design process
or the actual output process,
there's a lot of deep thought
that goes into the creation of these products.
And I'd like to thank all three of you
for sharing your expertise.
We'll be available side stage,
if you have any questions for them.
And I think there's a link somewhere
to everyone's information.
There it is. There's the link.
Thank you all so much.
Thank you, guys.
I really appreciate you sharing all your thoughts today.
<v Karen>Thank you, Melissa.</v>
<v ->Thank you.</v>
<v ->Thank you.</v>