<v ->Hope everybody's having an amazing CES.</v>
This panel is about,
do you need a chief cybersecurity officer?
And we're ready to get started.
A little bit about me before.
I'm an editor at ZDNET on the news team.
I've covered cybersecurity
and enterprise coverage topics before.
Right now, I focus on AI,
particularly helping our audience
learn how to navigate the AI revolution we're currently in.
But enough about that. Now to our amazing panelists.
I would love to kick off the panel
by letting them each introduce themselves.
So just tell us a little bit about who you are,
what you do, and how you got into cybersecurity.
<v ->Got it. Well, thank you, Sabrina.</v>
And, you know, welcome, everybody here.
So my name is Nabil Bukhari. I work for Extreme Networks.
You might be familiar with it.
Extreme Networks is the largest pure play networking company
for enterprises on the planet.
Who's who in the world,
you know, that runs on our technology.
For example, if you ever go to a sports stadium
in US and half of Europe,
you're probably on our network.
You know, when you go fly anywhere,
you're probably on our network.
You get packages. Those come through our network.
So we're very, very widely deployed out there.
My role there, I play multiple roles there.
I'm the CTO, I'm the CPO,
I'm also the general manager of the subscription business,
so you can say that I'm half technology and half business.
How did we get into cybersecurity?
I think we moved into the security space
about three or four years ago,
and we moved in there because we felt that security
was kind of like a overlay niche market by itself,
and we felt that that was the most inefficient way
to secure our clients,
and that's why we ended up kind of moving into that space
and converging the networking
and security products together.
So that's kind of, you know, who I am, what we are doing,
and how we are related to cybersecurity, yeah.
<v ->Well, thank you so much. Karen?</v>
<v ->Hi, I am Karen Evans.</v>
I'm the managing director for the Cyber Readiness Institute.
And do you wanna know how
the Cyber Readiness Institute got started
or how I got started in cyber?
'Cause those are two different things
and the reason why I do the Cyber Readiness Institute.
So it's a nonprofit that's focused
on small and medium businesses,
and what we do is we're focused on four core issues,
which is considered cyber hygiene,
but it's really about human behavior
and the focus and culture of an organization
so that you're always focused on what is the risk
and that you ingrain this into all your employees,
and it's free.
And the reason why the Cyber Readiness Institute got started
is because several years ago,
President Obama had a commission
as it related to cybersecurity,
and the two co-chairs on that,
one of which is our leader, which is Sam Palmisano.
A few of you might know him. He used to run IBM.
He runs several nonprofits now.
He's also running a big venture capital fund.
They made all these recommendations,
but they knew that the funding
was gonna go to state and local governments
and then to critical infrastructure.
And their recognition was small and medium businesses
are the economic driver of every country
and that if they don't get it right,
it's gonna affect the supply chains of everything.
And I thought that that was pretty intuitive
and have a lot of foresight on their part.
The other person who was his partner,
and this is Ajay Banga,
who was the CEO of MasterCard at the time,
and he's now in charge of the World Bank.
But the companies that belong to CRI that started this
are MasterCard, Apple,
it was GM, ExxonMobil, and then Principal Financial,
and now T-Mobile is there.
So it's a small group of companies
that are very focused globally
on the economics supply chain
of a lot of different industries across the board.
So that's how that got started.
But I'll save my story
of how I got started in cybersecurity
'cause that one is always...
You don't wanna follow it,
so I'll hold it
until the right time to share it.
<v ->Okay, well thank you.</v>
<v ->I appreciate that.</v>
<v ->Kevin?</v>
<v ->Yeah, I appreciate that, Karen.</v>
So my name's Kevin, co-founder and CEO of Doppel.
We're an AI cybersecurity startup
that started just a couple years ago,
and we're now the fastest growing company in our vertical.
We serve, you know, everyone
from small and medium-sized businesses
to high-growth startups to Fortune 500s,
and we focus in particular on all things social engineering.
So if you've ever gotten a text
from someone pretending to be your boss
or if you've seen, you know, maybe a fake LinkedIn profile
of, you know, someone pretending to be part of your company
or, you know, even just a traditional phishing email, right,
and spoof website,
our job is to go and detect
and, you know, analyze all those sorts of threats
and then take them down at the source.
You know, how I got into cybersecurity,
so before all this and before Doppel,
I was a software engineer at Uber and Lyft.
Worked on dispatch systems and flying cars,
so very different world than cybersecurity.
But, you know, kind of cliche Silicon Valley story,
my co-founder and I, Rahul, wanted to start something
and do it in the AI space,
where, you know, he was roommates
and is still very good friends
with one of the lead researchers at ChatGPT and OpenAI.
And, you know, seeing how that was changing the world
made it very clear that there needed to be new products
in the cybersecurity space, so that's how we ended up here.
<v ->Well, thank you so much for those introductions.</v>
I think we should jump
right into the title of our session today.
Do companies need a chief information security officer,
also known as a CISO in the industry?
Who's ready to take it on?
<v ->I'll-</v>
<v ->You go first.</v>
<v ->I go first.</v>
We'll keep the sequence.
<v ->We were prepping for this,</v>
and it was really...
They had to cut us off in the prep session, so you go first.
<v ->Yeah, all right. (laughs)</v>
So, Sabrina, I think the answer is it depends, right?
So I think the general thought that people think,
like, "Oh, my god, if I don't have a CISO
then I don't have a security policy or security strategy
or I'm, like, under a lot of risk."
I think that is all bullshit.
That's more, you know, kind of hype than anything else.
When we see out in the market
is that most of the companies,
actually even at the mid level and the high level,
actually don't really have dedicated CISOs
in the E-staff, right?
And most of the times,
they actually report in to the CIOs, right?
So we see that trend quite a bit.
I would say that since this panel
is about small to medium business,
I would say every business should decide
whether they need it or not,
but I would give you three things to consider.
Number one is cost, right?
If you're a 200-people company,
do you really have the business
and do you even have the money
to actually create a complete CISO organization?
Most, probably not, and at that point in time,
the risk and the benefit, they don't really match up.
So one is related to your size.
Second is related to your business.
Depending upon if you are in healthcare,
then that's a very different answer
compared to, you know, an industry
that is not that highly regulated.
So that will be the second part.
And the third part, I would say, is more organizational.
What we have seen in the market
is that the moment you take a thing out
and make it a separate role altogether,
like, for example, you say, like, "Hey, there's a CISO,
and now, CISO, you're responsible for the security."
Then every other exec says that,
"Okay, that's not my problem anymore."
And it ends up creating a very siloed approach to security.
So it depends upon the organizational structure and culture,
but I would say that for medium to small size,
if I were to take a wild guess,
I would say most of them are better off
not having a CISO than having a CISO,
based on these three aspects, right?
So that's at least how we view it in the market, yeah.
<v Sabrina>Okay.</v>
<v ->So my background is government.</v>
I have 30 years in the federal government,
and I was chief information officer
for Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security,
for the United States government for six years,
so I managed a budget at that point
of $71 billion in IT investments across the board.
And I also was the first assistant secretary
for Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response
in the Department of Energy.
So I was responsible for the power grid,
and the government doesn't own it, okay?
So I can relate to CISOs who have responsibilities.
The title of this piece, though,
and I agree with everything that you said
about small and medium businesses
'cause it's always a trade-off on the resources,
and that's why, again, we're focused on the culture,
'cause you said culture multiple times.
But I think there's a lot in the title itself,
which is chief information security officer.
And if the chief information officer...
So this is my bias 'cause I'm from a CIO background.
If the CIO is really doing their job,
which is the strategic use of information,
which that's what you were talking about from your company,
then the CISO,
as long as they have the I in their title,
should always belong to the chief information officer
because it's talking about the security of the information.
It's talking about the risk associated with it,
the integrity, everything associated with information.
Now, in the government space,
every time the CIO doesn't do the job,
and this gets into your part about the bifurcation,
we get a new chief.
So, like, now there's a new
chief customer experience officer-
<v ->Or chief AI officer.</v>
<v ->So we have a chief AI officer,</v>
we have a chief data officer,
we have a chief information security officer,
we have a chief customer experience officer,
we have a chief innovation officer,
we have a chief technology officer.
All of those functions are what a CIO
is really supposed to be doing in an organization.
It's about the strategic use of information
to enhance that customer experience
while you're securing and managing the risk.
And if a CIO doesn't do their job,
that's why you see a lot of this happening.
And to your point, what happens is,
and I've seen this in private industry a lot,
is, "Oh, I have to have a CISO."
And then they become the scapegoat when a hack happens,
and it's like, "Man."
And so, like, they move around all over the place.
Like, they're worse than,
in DC, it's called political appointees.
They have, like, a useful shelf life
of about 18 to 24 months, right?
Because once an incident happens, they're gone
because they're the first ones to go
when, in fact, that really shouldn't be the case.
It should be the CEO of the organization,
and the board should be managing that risk.
<v Sabrina>Thank you.</v>
<v ->Yeah, no, I think it's a...</v>
I mean, it's an interesting question, right?
Because, you know, when we talk about SMBs,
you know, I think a lot of what we just discussed
in terms of the constraints,
the resources you have to think about trading off,
things like that,
it's, you know, obviously,
you know, in an ideal situation,
you have infinite resources,
and you could have, you know, everyone on your team, right?
I will disagree, though, with Nabil and Karen here, right?
Like, I do think, you know...
Well, I do think this.
You do need to find someone who can lead and drive security,
you know, whether you call it a CISO
or whether you call the role a CIO
or whether you call the role CSO, right?
Or, you know, even if it's not necessarily a C-level yet.
But I do think even in the SMB tier, right,
it's critical for organizations
to have someone who can really drive security
and cybersecurity in particular for an organization.
Granted, of course, you know,
the real answer is, like Nabil said, it depends,
and, you know, it depends on the exact risks
your organization has
and, you know, what sort of regulatory environment you're in
and things like that.
But something I will, you know, push against
is that I don't think just 'cause, you know, you have a CISO
or you have someone dedicated to, you know, running security
that it has to mean that
that function becomes siloed, right?
And, you know, I do think, though,
you know, and I recognize that that's not necessarily
what you're saying, right?
Like, it's not that it has to happen that way, you know?
You know, it's a legitimate argument
that it's just so that that's what happens in practice.
But I think, you know, at the end of the day,
we're actually all saying the same thing
in terms of, you know, you wanna develop that culture,
you wanna develop that mindset as an organization.
And, you know, coming from the Doppel side,
we certainly see it with both our customers
and of course ourselves as well, right?
And so in my view,
I do think having that security leader is important
because, you know, it's the same reason why
you've got leaders for, you know, maybe it's technology,
maybe it's for finance,
maybe it's for human resources, right?
A CEO can't do everything,
and so, you know, how do you work closely
with your leadership team to, you know, not silo them either
and leave them stranded on an island and scapegoat them,
but how do you work closely with them
to build the right culture within your organization?
<v Sabrina>Is there anything you wanna add</v>
before we move to the next question?
<v ->Yeah, no, I think I'll just add,</v>
what I think Kevin is saying is spot on,
that it doesn't have to be
that CISO's become, like, more bifurcated and siloed.
Unfortunately it ends up being that way.
<v ->Right.</v>
<v ->And, you know,</v>
and it's not just the people and the organizational part.
Obviously we are from the tech industry.
You're from tech industry as well.
We are to be blamed for that as well
because what we like to do as a tech industry
is we like to create these niche product categories,
and we need to create a person
who's a buyer in the organization.
So there's an entire security industry whose sole purpose
is, like, we don't care what is running anywhere else,
we're gonna come in and secure it.
And I'm not talking about your company, (laughs)
but generally.
And if you look at it
just from a technologist's point of view,
that premise by itself is just absolutely absurd, right?
Because information is not an independent thing.
Information is in the network,
information is in your application,
information is in your processes, it's everywhere.
It is social engineering as well.
That's information as well.
So I think because you're protecting information
and, by that respect, data,
the whole nature of it is that this,
from a technology point of view,
from the application of technology point of view,
and from a, you know,
organizational structure point of view,
it has to be a shared responsibility.
I'll give you our example, right?
So obviously, from our customer point of view,
you know, we see all over the world all kind of companies,
but we are an enterprise as well, right?
And we are a pretty decent sized enterprise.
We have a CISO, but that CISO reports in to a CIO.
So we have that function,
but that function is so deeply integrated
into the broader CIO role.
So I think I wanna kind of caveat
and explain that the title,
because when it says CISO, I do not read it as,
do you need a security team?
I don't read it that way.
I don't read it,
do you need somebody that is dedicated to security?
I don't read it that way.
I read the O part and the C part,
that this is a chief information security officer.
Do you need an independent organization?
Do you need that person sitting in your C-suite and stuff?
So I just wanna make sure that my answers come-
<v ->And you're right.</v>
<v ->from that point of view.</v>
I'm not against having a security team.
Everybody should have one.
<v ->Right, right, and you're right,</v>
'cause you need a security team, right?
You need risk management, you need to do all that,
you need the culture piece,
and it is a shared responsibility.
But I think the way that the panel is set up
and the way that they primed us on this is,
when does a small and medium business start looking at,
hey, I need to, like, shift my organization,
and now I'm starting to bring...
'Cause a lot of them use managed services.
I mean, I'm working with
a lot of small and medium businesses, utilities,
all kinds of stuff across the board,
and they use managed services.
So it's when does enough,
like, I've crossed over this threshold
that I have to start bringing things back in
and start managing things myself
and then look at the organization
versus, well, I'm buying it as a service?
I'm buying security as a service,
I'm buying, you know, my cloud provisions
and things like that.
But you do need a security team
regardless of whether you bring it back in the house
or that you're managing it through a service provider,
and that's really what we try to explain
to the leaders of the company.
It's like just because you're buying these services
doesn't mean you don't need to have security.
<v Nabil>Yeah, agreed.</v>
<v ->Well, thank you for that</v>
'cause that actually segues perfectly
into what I wanted to ask you next.
So how can a business and technology leaders
help a technologist frame cybersecurity issues,
such as funding, in a lens of risk management
as opposed to just telling them
or recommending what the best services
or the best gear is to buy
to keep their information protected?
<v ->I'll take a quick stab at it.</v>
What we recommend to our customers is that
do not coin it as a security budget or risk budget.
The point is that everything that you're doing,
there should be a risk mitigation budget
inside that project.
So a lot of times, it happens,
like, because we come from connectivity, networking side,
you know, application data centers,
you know, clouds and stuff,
it's like, "Oh, my god,
we have opened up like five data centers.
Oh, shit, we actually need some security products.
Let's go look for them."
I mean, that's just the absolute wrong way to do it.
When you are setting up a project to do X, right,
you wanna open up, let's just take a very simple example,
a customer support team.
Everybody needs one, right?
So when you are setting up
your customer support function and organization,
think about the risk and the security of that team
in that project.
I think a lot of teams struggle with this security
or risk-related budget after the fact.
And a lot of times, you end up not doing it (laughs)
because they're like, "Oh, shit.
We have a data center. We ran out of money.
So you know what? We'll secure it next year."
Well, yeah, good luck with that.
So I think it's a lot of,
because you asked about framing,
so the way it should be framed about
is that there's a use case,
here's the actual, for lack of any other better word,
the functionality of the use case.
Here's my risk mitigation of that use case,
here's my user experience portion of that,
and combined together, here's my ROI for that use case.
If you do it that way, people are a lot more successful.
But then that kind of leads it to,
it can't be, like, that's a CTO's budget
and that's an CIO's budget, and that's a CISO's budget.
It's one budget, and you have your components in it.
So easier said than done.
I mean, let me not, you know, give you the impression
that it is so easy to do it, you should go do it tomorrow.
It is complicated, requires a big cultural change,
especially in your C-suite.
It might be surprising to some of you
that culture change starts with your CFO.
And a lot of the CFOs actually don't understand any of this,
so they come in and say, like, "Oh, my god,
you are asking tech, you are asking tech,
you are asking tech, dollar, dollar, dollar, dollar.
I don't care."
So start by educating your CFO.
The more your CFO actually understands this,
the easier it would become.
I'll leave it there. (laughs)
<v ->Perfect.</v>
<v ->You should go next.</v>
<v ->Yeah, no, I mean, it's really about thinking it</v>
through the business lens, right?
You know, and that's why my stance is, right,
it's, you know, whether we call it C-level or not,
like, it's important to have that security leader
even at an SMB, you know, stage of business
because, you know, that leader then can really drive
how do you contextualize these sorts of security decisions
or vendor decisions or, you know, internal decisions, right,
in the context of the business.
You know, like, what happens to the business
when, you know, we do have this breach?
Or what happens to this business
when, you know, we're out of compliance
in this particular area from a security perspective
or, you know, we leak some data here, right?
And so, you know, I think a lot of it
just comes down to how you tie it back to the business.
And, you know, it's a common phrase, right?
Like, once there is a breach, right,
and, you know, there is a crisis or a disaster, right,
like, that's when businesses
are always willing to spend more.
But, you know, having someone
who's been there before and done that
and can, you know, contextualize these sorts of decisions
in the context of...
It's not just a, you know...
Like, I wouldn't even frame it as like a risk thing, right?
But it's really about, like, this is what will happen,
you know, to our top line
or this will happen to our bottom line, right,
if we don't do this sort of thing.
That's really, I think, how you can really,
you know, expand beyond just think of it as a risk framework
but really, you know, dollars and cents for a CFO or a CEO.
<v ->So I'm gonna take a whole different stance on this.</v>
That's why I knew they would go this way.
So CRI, we have a program
called the Cyber Readiness Program.
And, you know, small and medium businesses are the same
regardless of sector and the way that they look at it.
And we're focused on four areas,
and when you look at it, you'll go,
"Oh, yeah, Karen, it's a no-brainer." Right?
So it's phishing, automatic updates,
multifactor authentication, and removable media.
But when you work through the program,
the program makes you think,
and it follows ISO standards and all this other good stuff,
but it doesn't use the words ISO standards
and cybersecurity risk framework and all this.
It doesn't use anything like that, okay?
Because the minute you start talking
to small and medium businesses about cybersecurity,
like, their eyes glaze over,
you know, they think, like,
"Hey, it's never gonna apply to me because I'm so small."
They have no...
Like, ransomware has, like, really been
an eye-opening experience for society.
You know, it's a great business
if you wanna be in it, you know?
'Cause it's like you can go out and use AI
and come up with something,
and it's, like, minimum investment, big return, right,
if people pay you.
Not that I'm advocating people become criminals here.
But, I mean, when you look at it
from a pure business sense,
it is a great return on the investment.
Small and medium businesses don't think that way.
And the industry, both of you guys have hit on it,
the cybersecurity industry
has become a victim of its own terminology, right?
We have made it sound so scary,
who wants to be involved in it?
It's like, you know, oh, my gosh.
And most of the time in small businesses,
it's like the HR person, it's another duty as assigned,
and they're like, "Okay.
CEO says I have to do cybersecurity. What is that?"
So it's really trying
to, like, change the discussion,
and we have to change the way that we talk about it
and the way that we frame it.
And so a lot of it has to do, when we talk with them,
we're like, "Hey, you know..."
They think it's only about Office 365 and the cloud
and things like that,
and they're like, "Yeah, okay, I can get a pencil and pen."
Then you ask them, "Hey, what happens
if, like, you know, your customer service thing goes down
or, you know, your billing system goes down?"
And they said, "Well, what do you mean?"
And I said, "You know, like, you can't generate any bills
or you can't, like, pay people,
or, you know, you're doing this or you're doing..."
And they go, "Oh, my gosh.
Like, we would have no revenue whatsoever coming in.
We would not be able to survive if that happened."
And that's when we say,
"Hey, that's what will happen if you don't do X."
And they're like, "Oh! That's what that person meant."
I mean, it just is, like, it's a big eye-opening thing,
so we're a victim of the way that we frame the problem
and the way that we talk about it.
I mean, if you look at the underlying infrastructure,
it's all based on military terms,
so, you know, like, how many people have memorized that?
So we really have to change the way that we talk about it
and what we're saying instead of saying,
"Well, if you follow this
141-dash, you know, 3 encryption standards
and 800, you know, 153 and all this,
and, oh, and then you have 151 security controls
that you have to meet for CMMC
and then do this ISO standard and meet this with HIPAA."
Like, I mean, you guys
have already tuned me out there, okay?
So, like, we just have to talk about it differently,
and a CEO and the board and the CFO
or the small business owner will make that investment
when they realize it's gonna affect their revenue.
<v ->Yeah, I think I'll add one</v>
because the way you describe it is absolutely perfect,
because especially for smaller and medium businesses,
they understand business continuity.
<v ->Yep.</v>
<v ->They don't necessarily understand cyber risks, right?</v>
And business continuity now,
because everything is digital and everything is connected,
a huge part of business continuity is your cyber security,
but it needs to be framed properly,
and that's why it has to be part of every project
and every budget, right?
So I love the way you described it, yeah.
<v ->A bit of a rapid-fire question</v>
before we open up questions to the audience,
but if a company should hire a CISO,
what are some characteristics
they should be looking for in that person?
<v ->I'll go real quick.</v>
Person who understands their business.
<v ->That's great.</v>
<v ->I mean, I was gonna say something similar, right?</v>
Like, you know, in SMB,
business environment's very different than enterprise,
and then of course
you've got your different vertical sectors,
things like that,
so, yeah, someone who, you know, really understands
what the job's gonna be for that particular business.
<v Nabil>I think I agree with both of them.</v>
I'll add one more characteristic.
Hire a nice person.
Because how many times I'm like,
if you've ever done a project
and you've finished the whole project
and then everybody looks around and says,
"Who's gonna talk to the CISO?"
<v Karen>Yep.</v>
<v ->Because you go to see them</v>
and the first thing the security person says, "No."
Don't even know what it is, why you're doing it,
what is the business need?
So hire somebody that is,
I mean, I'm saying that tongue in cheek,
but the idea is that hire somebody that is collaborative
and somebody that considers themselves
and their organization as part of the business
and not kind of like a side auditor, right?
So that's just absolutely critical
because I will tell you this.
If your CISO, he or she, is not, you know, a nice person,
other functions will find a way to go around him or her.
That's, like, the whole shadow IT,
and, like, especially with all of the SaaS applications
and the AI tools that are out there,
it is so easy to go around the security team,
and you don't want to do that, right?
So find a person who sits and says, like,
"Hey, Karen, this is your project.
Let me help you find a way to do this.
Let's do it together."
Rather than, like, "Karen, you figure this out,
then come and ask me,
and I might say yes or I might say no."
So hire a nice person.
I don't know how you put it on your resume though,
"I'm a nice person." (laughs)
<v ->Well, thank you so much.</v>
I would love to open up the opportunity to all of you
to ask our amazing panelists some questions.
If you do have a question,
just go ahead, stand up, and please go to the mic.
<v Attendee>So it's not a question but just a comment.</v>
How many people, by a show of hands,
belong to InfraGard, the National Member Alliance?
None? Really?
<v ->That's amazing. That actually is a good question, yeah.</v>
<v Attendee>Oh, wow. Okay, so this is a free service.</v>
It's a partnership between the FBI and private industry.
And they have a national member alliance
but also have local chapters.
So you get newsletters about cybersecurity, email updates.
There's a conference.
<v ->InfraGard.</v>
<v Attendee>InfraGard, I-N-F-R-A-G-A-R-D.</v>
If you Google it, you'll find it.
And so I belong to the New Jersey chapter.
We had an end-of-year review of cybersecurity issues
with our FBI team,
and the CISO for ADP, the payroll giant,
he came up and did a talk,
and he offered his services
to the entire New Jersey chapter.
So obviously, being a payroll giant,
they get hacked all the time,
and so they're sitting on a treasure trove
of cybersecurity information,
and they're letting us have that information
so long as, you know, obviously it doesn't conflict
with their business.
But it was a valuable connection to make,
and I highly recommend everybody join it.
<v ->Fantastic.</v>
Community is so important when it comes to security.
<v Attendee>Yeah, and I don't get any kickback</v>
for this, so...
But this is like strength in numbers, right?
So it's like if more people, we're all in this together,
if they attack my company,
they're gonna attack your company.
<v ->Yeah, 100%, 100%.</v>
<v Attendee>Hi. Okay, can you hear me?</v>
<v ->Mm-hmm.</v>
<v ->Okay.</v>
You touched upon hire someone who's nice
or collaborative, right?
I 100% agree with that, but at the same time,
look at it from the CISO's perspective or security.
I've never been a CISO,
but I was a senior manager managing a team of SecOps,
you know, blue team, red team guys-
<v ->Right.</v>
<v ->Guys and girls.</v>
And we were under tremendous pressure.
I mean, we managed airlines
and airports across the world,
so you can imagine how many incidents and events
we had on a daily basis.
But the truth is, from a security perspective,
it's frustrating when, you know, either C-level
or senior management, mid-level management
either disregard, like you said, they go around it,
or they ignore you or they don't pay importance to it.
So it's kind of, yes,
you should hire someone who's very collaborative,
and you can, you know, during the interview process,
you can figure that out and everything.
But at the same time,
from a security perspective, it's very frustrating.
I think there's a big lack of knowledge,
and a lot of C-suite people don't even wanna know about it.
They're completely disinterested
until a disaster happens, right?
And then, you know, like you said or all of you said,
you know, the security people are to blame,
and they have a shelf life of what, 24 months?
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v Attendee>That's surprising to me actually, but okay.</v>
But, yeah, I don't know how we can bridge that gap.
You know, we talk about it a lot,
but nobody seems to address it.
<v ->So I think you raise a very interesting point,</v>
and that's, you know, why I differentiated
between a security team and a CISO.
So one part of the CISO is to represent the security team
to the other functions and in the C-suite,
and that's why it's all the more important.
I never said that hire all the nice people
in security team (laughs)
because they should be the most technically sound people.
And by the way, the more paranoid they are,
the better off, you know, that role is.
But a CISO is...
You know, here's the thing.
And, again, as I said,
it's the C and the O at the end, right?
It's the chief and the officer part.
They are really the face of that organization.
They are the one who are collaborative.
They are the one who explain to the other executives
why you need it, as Karen pointed out,
in terms of either business continuity
or, you know, revenue generation
or, in some of the cases, PR risk.
Who wants your company's, you know, name
to be all over the news that, oh, you got hacked and stuff?
Although that happens quite a bit these days.
So the CISO's role is to translate
the very difficult, complicated,
and rapidly changing space of security
into a language that other execs
and other decision makers and stakeholders can understand.
Remember, they don't live it on a day-to-day basis,
so if you go and you kind of talk about
the latest, you know, threat,
I mean, to Karen's point, like, the eyes glaze over,
but that's why it is so important.
The best CISOs that I know,
they were technical 10 years ago.
They are the best representatives
of a super technical organization.
So, you know, that's why I wanted to give the caveat
that my comments are about specifically about CISO
and not about the security team.
So CISO is the one who should be representing it,
translating it, and making sure that people
do not think of the security team
as a hurdle or as an audit,
but thinks of them as a resource.
Like, who wouldn't wanna create a product
or a project that is secure from day one, right?
That's the whole idea,
but it needs to be presented that way.
That CISO requires,
and I know I was laughing on the nice person,
but it's the soft skills that matter
because they are selling the value of their teams
to everybody else in the organization.
<v Attendee>Emotional intelligence.</v>
<v ->Emotional intelligence. And the translation, man.</v>
It's just like, and I think this is what Karen was saying,
is, like, don't bring in, like, your 18 acronyms
and the latest 12345.
Other people don't understand it.
And by the way, on the technology side, I would say,
is that we are the worst offenders
because we try to sell security products based on fear.
<v Karen>Yeah.</v>
<v ->And what do you fear the most?</v>
The thing that you don't understand.
So obviously, you know, the whole industry
is built around creating this fear
around you don't understand it,
I do, and I'm telling you you should buy this, right?
I'm not talking about the security team itself.
So it's the community thing, right?
So that's what I would say on this, yeah.
<v Attendee>Thank you.</v>
<v Attendee>Thank you, I'll make a comment,</v>
and then I have a question for the panel.
Matt Aiello, I'm with Heidrick &amp; Struggles.
We're an executive search firm.
Just a slightly different perspective.
So I lead the cyber practice,
so we do hundreds of CISO searches
for everything from late-stage private equity
all the way to Fortune 5.
And I agree with everything the panelists said.
There is an evolving model over the last couple of years
where, you know, 90% of corporate,
of Fortune 500 CISOs are already talking to the board.
So they're talking directly to the audit committee.
They're talking directly...
They've got, you know, quarterly presentations.
They know how to distill the information.
So there is a growing, it's not a big number,
but there is a growing number of serious executives
who are not rotating every 24 months.
They're rotating every 29 1/2 months,
so it's getting better.
We do a survey with like 500 CISOs.
It's, like, about 3.1, it's like three years.
But it's not getting lower, which is good.
And then the second trend is,
and, Karen, I totally agree with you,
that as long as you've got the information in there,
you need to be a serious information guardian.
We are seeing the rise of more technical CISOs
'cause everything's moving to AI,
everything's moving to data,
so you need to have somebody that has deep technical depth,
ideally with a CS degree or a EE.
But the flip side of that
is the ability
to translate very sophisticated topics
to a non-technical audience and do so successfully
and have a broader enterprise risk orientation.
This is the move away from the CIO.
48% of CISOs report to a technical leader,
either a CIO or a CTO,
which means that a slight majority don't.
They report in to, not to CEOs yet.
That's happening in Asia.
It's happening a little bit in the US
below a certain revenue line.
They're reporting in to general counsels,
so we're seeing the GC,
we're seeing CFOs, a little bit of a scary trend,
we're seeing chief administrative officers,
chief operating officers.
As long as it's C minus one,
so CEO and then anybody that's on the ELT,
we are supportive of that, agree with you 100%.
When a client comes to us and says,
"We wanna to hire a world-class CISO,
and it's reporting in to infrastructure."
We'll say, "We're not gonna do it."
Well, I mean, we try,
we'll strongly encourage them
to change the reporting relationship.
So the good news is there's a lot of really good momentum
happening in the role.
My question, thank you for listening,
my question for the panel is,
I wanna present a slightly different perspective.
It's the role, all those pressures are there,
but I think CISOs are kind of rising,
some of the best are rising to the challenge.
My question to the panel is about AI and cyber,
so I'd love just quick, you know, thoughts.
I mean, obviously this is a very complex topic.
Cyber is a piece of AI and safety and security.
I'd just love to hear thoughts, right?
Where's this going?
Just maybe some guidelines
on to where you think cyber and AI are going.
<v ->Well, you should start.</v>
<v ->Yeah, yeah, I mean, I'm happy to take that one.</v>
Like, obviously, you know, with AI, right,
there's a lot of hype, there's a lot of buzzwords for sure
in terms of, you know, how is it actually impacting,
you know, both,
you know, I think of it in two different angles, right?
One is how's it actually impacting,
like, your threat landscape
and what you have to look out for,
and then how is it impacting,
you know, what sort of technology and vendors
or, you know, in-house, whatever, right,
you know, platform that you have to defend yourself?
And from what we've seen at Doppel,
I mean, every time an AI model gets released,
like the next-generation ChatGPT
or, you know, next-generation cloud, right,
like, we actually measure a lot of, you know,
what can it do internally for us at Doppel?
What can it do, you know, externally in our products?
And then also, you know, basically
do a lot of just conversations with customers
in terms of, like, how's it impacting
what you're seeing out there as well, right?
And so, you know, our thoughts on it,
based on, you know, what we've seen,
you know, a lot of real change
in terms of what you can do from a defensive perspective.
So, for example, we've been able to automate,
you know, certain teams,
like, entire teams at Doppel on the security operations side
that we couldn't automate two years ago.
It's not the whole, you know, organization.
You know, it's basically,
you know, we've got a set of, you know, tier one tasks,
tier two, tier three, right?
And we still, you know, especially tier two
and tier three, right,
it's still very much human in the loop.
But specifically, you know,
the models like the 01 in particular
that focus a lot more on the reasoning
rather than just cheaper inference,
those are the ones that we've seen big breakthroughs.
In terms of attacks,
you know, chatting with customers, things like that,
I think it really comes down to both volume
and velocity of the attacks, right?
So not necessarily something totally entirely new,
but just fidelity of certain attacks
or the volume of it or the velocity of it,
we've seen big changes in that over time as well.
For example, smishing,
you know, if you talk to Anti-Phishing Working Group,
you know, five, six years ago, not as big of a deal,
but now it's the fastest growing,
you know, phishing attack vector
for, you know, all things social engineering.
<v ->So real quick, CRI is also research,</v>
so I'm glad you asked that.
So I'm gonna leave you with this one last thought is,
sometimes we get so caught up in the technology,
like everything that you just said, right,
that some of the old ways might actually be better
than trying to implement technology.
And I'm talking from a small and medium business,
like, you're very efficient,
everybody's running efficiently,
process the email, do all this stuff,
I get all these things.
You know, sometimes if you just stop and call your vendor
and say, "Did you really send this?
'Cause I have no record of this purchase."
That you could actually stop a ransomware attack.
So I know we're very efficient.
We wanna process things really fast.
AI is gonna make it more...
So we're researching into how to stop some of these things,
but sometimes just regular human interaction
would actually be the best defense.
<v ->I'll say one sentence, and I promise one.</v>
I'm not known to give short answers,
but I'm gonna try my level best.
AI is going to force the breakage of those silos.
Right now, for me, my SecOps and my CloudOps
is bigger than my CISO's team, right?
So AI will absolutely force
this shared responsibility model,
and I'm actually very happy about that, right?
So that's my short answer,
but I'll give you a longer answer afterwards. (laughs)
<v ->Well, thank you, everyone, for coming.</v>
Thank you, Kevin, Karen, Nabil.
This was a lovely conversation.
Have a wonderful rest of your CES.