<v ->Well, I wanna thank you all so much for coming out</v>
here to CES 2025
participating in some of our excellent conference,
panel sessions.
I am really excited to be here today for this panel,
which is The Green Dream,
how sustainable VC went from ethos to opportunity.
Opportunity is gonna be the operating word
that we're gonna focus on today, right?
'Cause when we think about what innovation
and what technology is designed for, it's designed to,
we designed it to address conflict, challenge, obstacles.
And many times when we think about our changing world,
whether that's climate change or the sustainability story,
it's an opportunity for technology, innovation
to really drive home some of those solutions
to make a better world, a greener world, and just a,
and a better tomorrow.
So the panelists we're gonna have up here today
are gonna walk through some of those opportunities
from the venture capital side
and how that really translates into action overall.
So to kick things off, I'll just quickly introduce myself
and I'm gonna turn it over to our panelists
and let them introduce who they work for
and their background.
I'm Brian Comiskey,
the senior director of innovation and trends in futurists
at the Consumer Technology Association
owners and producers of CES.
And I'm quite excited to be here.
I help manage our NASDAQ partnership,
which includes thematic indexes
that are licensed out for thematic ETFs,
including a climate technology ETF.
So this is something that's very passionate to me
and I'm really excited to introduce our panelists.
And I'll start to my left with Corinna.
<v ->Hi everybody, my name is Corinna.</v>
I work at Material Impact, I'm a partner there.
We are a VC firm that focuses
on deep tech early stage investments.
So when we're thinking about investments
in the space of sustainability,
at a minimum what we always do is look for opportunities
that's better than what we're doing today.
So that's ingrained in what we're doing.
My background is in electrical engineering,
so I really focus more on the high science, high tech
type of investing at Material Impact.
<v Brain>Excellent. Thank you. Tito. Awesome.</v>
<v ->Hey everybody. Tito Jankowski.</v>
Last year was the highest year on record
to balance the climate, we need to both reduce emissions
and actually take carbon dioxide and pollution
that's in the air, we have to take it back out.
This has been modeled as a trillion dollar opportunity.
AirMiners is a ecosystem and accelerator
for startup companies.
We've accelerated 147 companies or 187 companies
and they've raised $147 million.
And we're explicitly focused
on people taking carbon dioxide out of the air.
Maybe they're storing it,
maybe they're turning it into bricks or materials
or things like that.
And that's why I'm here to here to share about today.
Limor.
<v ->Thank you. Great to see all of you here.</v>
Thank you so much for making time
in today's hectic schedule.
So, Limor Schafman and I'm with LG NOVA.
Very briefly, my background from corporate attorney to tech
to most recently, most relevant,
working with the Telecommunications Industry Association
to create a Smart buildings assessment and standard,
which is now managed by Underwriter Laboratories.
After that joined LG NOVA.
And LG NOVA is an innovation unit for LG Electronics.
We worked specifically with startups to create new ventures
in climate tech as well as digital health and AI for LG.
And so that's what we're doing here.
I'm focused on one of the new ventures
that we're gonna be hopefully launching soon,
later on this year
that is focused on climate tech.
And I'm delighted to be here with the panel.
<v ->Well, thank you all so much.</v>
And as you can tell from our panelists,
a variety of different backgrounds,
a variety of different expertise
because it's gonna take a lot of different solutions,
a lot of different technologies
to really build that sustainable future.
But when we're thinking
about all these complex different technologies,
different roles, I think you actually get,
have to go back to a core definition.
So I would ask each of you,
how would you define sustainability?
'Cause it might vary.
<v ->Yeah. You know, for us, what we're,</v>
when we think about sustainability, and
because we're a VC firm
that's focused on material innovation,
we touch a lot of industries.
And so what we're looking for
is things to kind of clean up the process
that we know is better for the planet.
And now a lot of times
it could be focused on downstream waste.
So for example, in advanced manufacturing,
we're talking about CNC parts
that we're talking about a lot of oil spray,
we're talking about debris in,
you know, debris in our water and so forth.
And looking for ways to better manufacture
and to perhaps cut down
on a lot of the chemicals and solvents used today.
So that's kind of one facet.
So what we're looking at is really can we do that
and also maintain that performance
that the industry is expecting
and able to make sure that we can drive adoption
because it has some sort of
either cost parity or superiority
that can command a premium price.
One of the things we really struggle with
is being able to provide a, or invest in opportunities
that can be more sustainable,
but that it can also meet market demands
and be able to drive adoption.
<v Brain>Who wants to build and elaborate on that?</v>
<v ->Tito, you go.</v>
<v ->Yeah, totally.</v>
When I think about sustainability,
I think about better, faster, stronger, forever.
That's what we're really talking about.
I saw a quote from, from Bill Gates that said, you know,
how can we make these technologies quicker and faster?
That's really what we're talking about
when we talk about sustainability,
<v ->And I'll say, so I'm gonna add,</v>
answer this from a couple of different perspectives.
One, from an LG perspective, from sustainability,
we're very committed to GHG,
we have incredible zero emissions by 2030,
and we're well on our way to achieving that.
All our appliances are sustainable,
we are using renewable plastics, recycled plastics,
et cetera, et cetera, and packaging, et cetera.
From an LG NOVA perspective,
we're looking for going beyond LG,
going beyond the appliances,
looking at the software solutions that we can create.
And so, we're looking at a number of different sectors there
and very open to different ideas,
whether it's energy management
to how do you handle the home more efficiently,
or how do you make something better for that experience?
With whatever kind of climate tech product it is.
Now, in terms of sustainability,
I think that's actually an interesting word
because the question I have for everyone is,
do we actually wanna sustain
or do we wanna make something better?
Are we actually looking
to actually create a better built environment for ourselves?
And whatever way, whether it's from the construction,
all the way to how we're creating our overall environment
and also our natural environment.
So I'm gonna say that also given what we,
I would see happening in the future,
that actually to include in that definition,
I would say resilience.
Because there's gonna be so much change.
We're going to need to be able to be flexible enough
to be able to handle the changes
that are gonna be happening in the very,
they are happening right now.
We can see what's happening in California.
And so are we gonna be actually able
to be flexible enough to be resilient,
and are we gonna be ready?
So I think there's a readiness question also for us
in terms of are we ready for the future is going to bring,
and we can discuss further what that might need.
<v ->Of course.</v>
And we're starting to really see in many ways that,
you know, I, I've been working on our index side,
we've had ESG screens
added to our thematic ETFs over the years,
and the definition has started to change,
which means there's evolution,
the roles of venture capitalists in particular.
So I guess the question is,
you know, the concept of sustainable vesting
has evolved over the past decade,
especially in tech industry.
Can you share how it's evolved from your perspective?
<v ->Yeah, well, going back to what Limor said,</v>
you know, if you've been around long enough,
whether it be clean tech, green tech,
sustainability climate tech,
I think fundamentally they're thematically the same.
I think now with a greater emphasis on carbon removal.
So, you know, from our perspective,
when we're thinking about investing,
especially from a VC investing kind of years ahead,
what are the things that we want to be mature
in the three to five year timeframe?
That we're looking at things
that may not necessarily be at the forefront now
and what that means.
So for us, we don't really put a label
on whether or not it's climate tech.
We really kind of see it as a label for the times.
But that when we're thinking about,
you know, what can we do better?
And for example, today, you know, one of our key goals
is to be less dependent on petrochemicals
and there's a lot of alternatives.
You could try to make it reusable and they're recycled.
And as VC, at least with Material Impact,
we also focused on alternative material
like biomaterials and so forth,
so that we're not really talking about,
you know, going through the same process
and reusing downstream,
but to start at the top at upstream
and kind of solving it right then and there.
So I think from our perspective,
we're talking about innovation,
we're kind of more,
I would say more forward facing or frontier tech oriented,
rather than focus only on recyclable, reusable,
because we want to, we want to be able
to have alternatives at the source.
<v Attendee>Do we have a QnA opportunity after the session?</v>
<v Brain>Yes, after the session.</v>
So keep the conversation going.
<v Attendee>Yes, please go.</v>
<v Brian>Yeah, well afterwards</v>
we'll go off stage and ask questions, thank you. Yeah.
<v ->So I'll say that one of the things that,</v>
so, infrastructure and the shifts in infrastructure
are gonna be absolutely massive, we can see that
because we know the population
is going to be moving a lot already.
Like a third of the population in the United States
is claiming climate as a reason that they are,
that they had to move their, where they lived in 2024,
that's just the United States.
And that's going to be a third
of the global population by 2100,
if not already a billion dollar,
a billion people by another five or 10 years.
So the question for us is what is the infrastructure?
That's what is, are we ready for that?
And so what we're looking at is,
yes, we're looking at infrastructure,
but we're looking at the software.
We, LG NOVA, I'm just gonna speak,
looking very much at the software side of this.
So the software side of how do we make these,
these hardware systems that much more efficient to address
and pushing them to the edge
of how the energy could be more efficient and resilient.
And also how can we take most advantage of AI
and the data that is now surrounding us in the world
so that people can live in a more safe
and holistic and healthy environment.
So we're looking from all those elements,
but we're very much looking
from the software and the data side of it.
And I think there's great richness
in that environment for there.
<v Brian>Tito, what would you say?</v>
<v ->Yeah, I really like what everybody's introduced here.</v>
Just this, I'm getting this sense like
sustainability is something that lets us go further, right?
You kind of bring up the efficiency, bring up the speed,
and enables you to,
we were talking about data centers before this, right?
And more efficient data center
is a data center that can handle more data at lower cost,
like that allows us to go further
than we otherwise couldn't see.
<v Brian>Yeah, of course.</v>
And I think we started to touch on
some of this idea of the energy transition
that's occurring and the technology
constraints that we're hitting.
So energy transition might sound like a new phrase.
It's actually a new category at the show here at CES.
And we've lived through two as society,
we've gone from firewood to coal,
we've gone from coal to fossil fuels.
We're in the midst of a third one,
which is from those fossil fuels to zero carbon energy.
And you're starting to see, but we have much,
a lot of power demand from AI in particular in data centers.
We're seeing some data center cooling technology
here at CES.
So I guess what emerging technologies
are you guys really maybe seeing on the show floor
or maybe just tracking in general as part of your roles?
<v ->Yeah, actually this is a big segment for us</v>
where generally I see it as next gen compute.
You know, what we're talking about today is, you know,
and everyone probably saw NVIDIA's presentation yesterday
where we're working off of a older architecture
and trying to move and move into cloud and enterprise
and now AI driven applications
that's requiring more demanding compute.
And what that means
is we need to have more energy efficient electronics
that's built from,
if you really think about it, reimagine from,
you know, and moving away or,
or augmenting the Von Neumann principle
when we're talking about how are we connecting these chips
with the chip lips, with the interconnects
and how to reduce energy but also maintain performance.
You know, we're already at that point
where everything is dense
and we're taking to the point where silicon is going
as far as it can go.
And now we're working on heat management,
throughput management, and just perhaps size management.
So I really see next gen compute
in terms of investment opportunities
as a way to reduce energy consumption.
And that comes from basically the efficiency of the chips
as we go to bigger and bigger architectures
to handle AI driven enterprise,
AI driven cloud and AI driven applications.
<v Brian>Tito, one more.</v>
<v ->Yeah, AirMiners,</v>
we specialize in taking carbon dioxide out of atmosphere.
So I mentioned those 187 companies,
some of them are taking farm waste
and turning into stable carbon.
Other people are making bricks
out of carbon dioxide from the air.
So there's all sorts of things you can do.
I think what I'm excited about is,
you know, when I think about decarbonization
and improving efficiency,
there's a lot of things that people have tried,
people have worked on.
And a lot of gains that we've had from that
that carbon removal is a piece of the climate equation
that kind of just recently became something that we need.
It was that there's no climate model for a stable climate
only reducing emissions.
Decade ago maybe that would've worked,
but at this point you could, you have to reduce emissions
and actually pull out what's there.
And so, I'm particularly excited about,
look, there's this whole new
piece of the equation that's needed.
What are all the technologies, all the approaches
that we'll need in order to make that succeed too?
<v ->To build on what Corinna said,</v>
just to continue for a second, is it's also gonna be,
the compute is also gonna be at the edge.
So we're going to be basically looking maybe
at quantum compute at the edge.
So, if you're looking at,
yes, we can look at what the power is
that's gonna be necessary there,
but also what we're looking at is then how do you manage?
'Cause it is all about, it's about profitability,
it's about business,
and we need to make sure that the customers that we are,
excuse me,
that the customers that we're serving
are gonna be able to make money and so,
and that the consumer is going to be in a good position
to do whatever
and live whatever life that person wants to live.
So there, and then meanwhile we have these chip sets
that are gonna possibly increase in heat,
but hopefully not because they're gonna be re-engineered.
But also we're dealing with a very distributed environment,
both in terms of the compute,
but also in terms of the energy gen and energy management
because we're looking at distributed energy resources,
the DERs right?
So the question is how do we manage all of that?
And how do we manage that with a level of visibility
of information of the data,
not only in terms of what is being produced,
whatever that is, a bitcoin being crunched,
a widget being produced, et cetera,
a piece of data, a chat bot, a chat,
agentic, an agent, what are they gonna be doing?
What, how much energy is that agent going to be using?
Which by the way, Chat GPT already
uses three times more energy than a regular search.
So you can imagine what an agent and what a phys,
what the physical AI is also going to be doing,
what the demand is gonna be,
what the heat is gonna be that's gonna be generated,
how are we going to manage that combination
of both knowing what kind of revenue
is gonna be able to be generated
while we know what our expenses are regarding the energy.
And we're also managing
all of that distributed energy systems
and interfacing it with a grid.
That's what we're looking at.
So you can just imagine now the level of compute
that also just needs to be done to manage that,
let alone what everybody's going to be doing
because the facilities
are gonna be able to be happening at that point.
So just to paint a picture, that's the,
those are the kinds of things that we're looking at.
<v ->Well, I think that's important too,</v>
especially when you're considering,
again, artificial intelligence,
we're in a massive revolution in that space.
There is that data center component,
and we were talking backstage about data center emissions,
you know, it takes 40 to 60% of the emissions comes
from just cooling them.
And that's, again, the area I would imagine
would be quite close to watch is
some of those cooling technologies.
You started to touch on something Limor
that starts to get into,
there's a lot of headwinds when we come,
we think about sustainable investing, right?
There's, it is a massive opportunity,
but there are challenges that I want,
and you're starting to get into this idea
of how do you balance profitability
with what is purpose driven investing
at the end of the day.
It's, we're looking at, we think about tangible assets,
innovation in its first class is an intangible asset.
Well so are sustainability values in many ways.
How do you make, how do we make that tangible?
So, how, I would love to hear from each of you,
how do you ensure that sustainability remains a priority
while also meeting the financial expectations
of your stakeholders?
<v Limor>Do you wanna go first?</v>
<v ->I'm happy to go first.</v>
You know, at the end of the day
you can have a technology and you can have a patent,
but it doesn't make a business.
And part of it here is what we're really looking at,
especially when I talk about materiel innovation,
is really to be able to have a business model
that makes sense
because otherwise, you know, that's,
you know, we're, it's not going to drive adoption
and then we can't make the impact that we want to make
and it can't become a real alternative in the marketplace.
So we do look really closely at,
especially when we're doing early investments,
you know, do we understand
what the current industry is like?
Whether it be supply chain, whether it be the process,
you know, what are the hurdles for adoption
and what is the monetary business model, you know?
And what are our expectations
of whatever product that we're looking to invest in
can get to the point of commercialization and scale.
Because sustainability,
climate tech can be very broad ranging,
it could come down to electrolyzer for green input.
It can come down to,
you know, these days the infrastructure required
for EV charging.
You know, when's the last time we really thought
about AC to DC conversion
and wanted to really know the efficiency of that?
Now that's really important because all that energy makes
is something that we really, really want to capture.
And so we're really looking at these schemes,
and fundamentally their business models on what makes sense.
Otherwise as driven as we are
and wanting to have some sort of green change,
we know that in the end the market wins out.
So we also look very closely on green premium
and does that make sense?
But in the end of the day,
we generally think that it's gotta meet
at least current market performance,
but ultimately better.
But we have to be careful with that
because it takes a lot of work to get to better
and we want to grow into that scale, especially as a VC side
where it's early, it's likely a new segment
or a new innovation.
So we look at the business model and monetization
very closely.
<v ->Yeah, we saw this happening in carbon removal, right?</v>
You're going out and what you're effectively pitching is
we're going to be selling invisible gas, nobody really wants
and we want people to pay us a lot of money for it, right?
So that pitch kind of wasn't all that working really well.
On the other side of it though was
look, we're gonna need to be removing
billions of tons of carbon dioxide from the air every year
starting in the next couple decades, right?
So there is this effectively trillion dollar market
on the horizon.
What we found talking with investors was
I went and I talked to, I interviewed 30 different investors
and I said, look, what's your biggest concern
about investing in carbon removal?
And they all said,
look, we're here for that long-term vision.
We're here 'cause we get
that there's gonna be this trillion dollar opportunity,
but we're not investing now as much as we could
because we're not sure if it's,
is it right now or is it five years from now
or is it 10 years from now?
And so that led us to creating a new fund
where instead of investing in equity in the company,
so actually owning pieces of the companies,
instead we have a fund that makes money
when the companies remove carbon from the sky.
And so this was something actually
that worked better for certain investors
because they said, look, as long as there's customers,
we can have this fund, this fund work.
And believe me, we didn't wake up one day
and I wasn't like, hey, like I'm gonna be a fund manager.
But it really came from, well how do we unlock this?
How do we get from here to this trillion dollar market,
to this stable climate?
And that involved creating what we call the Kiloton Fund
where we've made 20 investments out of that
where we invest in the, in the companies.
And then Shopify announced
that they were purchasing a hundred thousand dollars
of carbon removal credits from every single company
in the Kiloton Fund.
So we're able to demonstrate that, you know, investing
and having a customer come along with it.
And so that's what we've seen as kind of,
you know, what's needed in terms of how discovering,
how do we get to a balanced planet, how do we get to these,
you know, this market being something on a spreadsheet
or in a climate model
to being something that's actually being built out
and alive.
<v ->Fascinating.</v>
And, you know, there someone was saying to me earlier, ROI,
let's redefine it as return on impact.
And I love that. I think it's-
<v Brian>That's a great phrase. Sorry, I love that.</v>
<v ->It's fascinating and it's fantastic</v>
and I think it really reframes our minds
and I will say and yet.
So we need to make sure that there is a business there.
And so now speaking also as LG as well as LG NOVA,
so as LG we are committed.
I think also it's really important
for the corporate on the highest levels, the chairman level
as well as the CEO level
on down to be committed to sustainability and GHG reduction,
et cetera, et cetera.
It must come from there.
And at the same time we're paying attention
to our customers, our consumers, especially the next gen
that is growing in terms of its capacity to purchase,
the gen Zs and the Alphas that are coming,
there are demanding,
they will not work with a brand that is not sustainable.
We must listen to our consumer.
So we're also going to be driven by that.
And, of course, the SEC
is coming down with GHG requirements.
So there is the regulatory aspect.
Now I would say that regulatory can be quite interesting.
It can be the carrot and the stick, right?
Because it could modify some behavior and at the same time,
and we can continue to mining-
<v Brian>Oh, we'll definitely be talking more about that</v>
in a moment.
<v ->Okay, okay.</v>
<v Brain>Yeah, yeah.</v>
<v ->So then, so I'll just say that.</v>
So, but, and yet beyond that
we need to make sure that it's still a good business.
It still makes good business sense
because you don't wanna be beholden necessarily
to the external powers that be, except for the marketplace.
You wanna make sure
that you're addressing a marketplace need, I would say.
So it's that balance of ROI and ROI maybe.
<v Brian>Yeah, I really like that,</v>
this idea of, there's two ROIs now to think about.
You started to touch upon value
and I think this is a value sets of consumers
and this will transition us to this idea
of how do you measure impact,
but I find it fascinating 'cause we,
gen Z and gen Alpha are very much interested
in sustainable values.
But we've actually,
we've been looking at some secondary researches
there's sometimes the action gap between values.
So, gen Z tends to say, oh, we love sustainability,
but then they go and they get, they do fast fashion
and they buy things directly offline,
that's not very sustainable.
And so we actually have seen some great secondary research
from NIQ and World Data Lab
that shows that if you have multiple sustainability values,
so if you are energy efficient and you recycle
and you do these,
basically, if you are to your point,
showcasing that this is a value set
that we actually hold as a company,
it's not just lip service,
they're two and a half times more likely
to purchase a multiple sustainability,
so that's a good point and this gets into impact.
This is, this ROI, how, what metrics or frameworks do you,
each of you use really
to assess whether a company or a technology
or an investment that you're making is truly contributing
to the environmental and social progress that you,
that we're striving to achieve here?
So I throw that to you guys.
<v ->Sure. I'm happy to take that first.</v>
So, you know, we have, in the VC industry we also have,
you know, I would say dedicated climate tech funds.
And a lot of times
we really are looking at the size of the impact
in terms of, you know, greenhouse gases that you can remove,
GHG, in general.
And so what we're really thinking about is where,
you know, we have these kind of analysis
where we're looking at once commercialized,
what is the impact of that?
And general metrics, there can be many,
but we're talking about basically carbon removal.
We're talking about
either it be water reduction or chemical reduction,
you know, clean water.
So I would say generally we're really talking about that.
And within industry sectors,
let's say for like ag, like agtech,
then it's really talking about
perhaps reduction of pesticides
or reduction of particular chemicals.
And to Limor's point, you know, regulation is kind of,
it's a push pull right now.
The EU has also, I would say interesting components
in being able to drive that mandate.
So in the end of the day,
you know, we really go back and saying,
well, we wanna basically do better for the planet.
And so right now, even though there may be a lot of focus
on carbon itself, which we must reduce
that along the way, when you really think about
how many chemicals are going into the ground for our food,
for our textiles and cotton and so forth,
that all right there is also,
you know, helpful as well in terms of reduction of that.
To kinda give you an idea,
in agtech, you know, if you're looking at a chemical label,
they have it as gallons per acre.
And well, a typical plant has hydrophilic leaves
where water just bounces off.
So where's it bouncing into?
And how much of it actually got to the plant?
And so what we do is we douse it
because we don't have the technology today
to really know how much is there getting to the plant.
Those are a type of innovations that we're talking about
and that we're looking in
where if you guys just, you know, really thought
about how many gallons of pesticides are going in,
going into our groundwater
and other things in terms of soil health and stuff,
it all feeds itself.
So we really think of it as a holistic module.
But those metrics, water, land, chemicals, carbon,
those are like, you know, the big four or five.
<v Brian>Tito.</v>
<v ->Yeah, ours is easy.</v>
We're just counting molecules of carbon dioxide
that they're in the air and you grab them out.
And that's what makes it really this free space
for people to innovate and invent.
It's, if you've got a way
or an idea for a way to grab onto carbon,
I can tell you that we're falling far short of,
of what's needed from a climate model standpoint.
Effectively carbon removal needs to grow 40%
year over year over year over year through 2050,
which means it needs to grow as fast as biotechnology,
as fast as Moore's law, as fast as computing.
And it's for removing invisible gas from the sky.
And it's an area where we've really just started to,
just started to innovate and discover.
So there's plenty of space for,
if you have some new way to grab onto molecules of carbon,
that's something that we can figure out how to count
and something we can figure out how to turn into a business
and a contribution to how do we get to a stable climate
and a thriving human civilization.
That's what it's all about.
<v Brian>Yeah. Thank you. And Limor?</v>
<v ->So we're looking at it,</v>
I would say LG is counting very much it's carbon emissions,
what percentage of renewables it is using
in terms of recycled product,
how much of its product and its packaging
is being recycled, et cetera.
So it's looking very much at that.
As LG NOVA we're looking,
I would say we're looking very much at the business itself.
I was, we have a couple of different ways of looking at it.
One, how many startups are we supporting
in terms of developing new businesses?
How many startups are we launching
in terms of these new sectors?
'Cause our mission is to actually launch new startups
and we're hoping to launch again, as I said,
one, at least one this coming year in the sector.
So we're looking at it much very much
from the innovation aspect
of how we're supporting innovation in the sector.
I would say that's what we're looking those
in some of the metrics that we're looking.
Also how much we're investing in the startups,
literally like from a dollar amount
in terms of how much we're investing
and then how well those companies
are gonna con do continue doing?
What impact they're gonna have?
So we're sort of feeding it forward a little bit
and that's what we're looking at as well.
<v ->Excellent.</v>
And so, over the course of the last few answers,
we started touching upon this idea of government regulation.
We are in the midst right now of some change
and with a new incoming admin,
and globally, we're seeing a lot of change across the board.
So, how do you all see government regulations
and incentives?
It's not always just regulation, it can be incentives
shaping the future of sustainable innovation.
Do you think there's enough support
or do you think that there needs to be more done
to align the goals of sustainable venture
with environmental objectives and government policy?
<v ->Yeah, we actually started looking at this very closely</v>
because when we're talk thinking about investing
in early stage startups, there's,
we really focus on also
what's the available non-diluted funding.
And a lot of times these are grants,
you know, whether it be from NIH, DOE, DOD and whatnot.
And so this is something that we do expect this
as the VC industry as a whole
to be greatly shaped by the incoming administration.
Maybe less DOE, maybe more DOD,
you know, if you had to guess.
And so, but part of that here,
when we're talking about making this type of big impact
and we compare where we are today to perhaps,
you know, decades ago
when there were more infrastructure investments
that it really kind of takes a village
to make the impact that we're talking about.
So we look at this very closely
in terms of non-diluted funding for the startups
to being able to get a little further.
For example, a good example
is really the EV charging infrastructure.
You know, back in the day, you know, they built,
you know, funny enough they built highways
because tire manufacturers wanted people to get out and go.
And because of that then there was these gas stations,
but a lot of it was subsidized by, you know, by government
and being able to do that same thing with transportation.
And so, you know, where we are
in terms of new sustainable investments
and how that plays, I think is TBD.
So, you know, in California there's a lot of tax credits
to make EV more affordable
and that definitely drives change.
That's not, that's not VC money, that's not industry money,
you know, that's a grant in some ways or in others.
So we look at this very specifically
within the incoming administration, what the focus is on
and really help startups understand
what are some options outside of just straight VC money.
<v Brian >So you don't think it's going anywhere</v>
with this incoming?
<v ->I think the three letter acronym agencies will switch</v>
and that there's gonna be some focus we like,
as we know, biosecurity was kind of a big thing, you know?
And perhaps less DOD.
And so we do think
that national security oriented type grants
are going to increase,
but I think, you know, it's anyone's guess,
but that's kind of the trend.
<v Brian >Perfect. I want to hear more from you two.</v>
<v ->Yeah, sure. So from a carbon removal standpoint,</v>
in fact there's an existing industry for reducing emissions.
For example, the EU has their emission trading scheme,
which is many hundreds of billions of dollars per year
traded around,
well how do we reduce emissions?
That framework is there for carbon removal,
but it's not yet applied to carbon removal,
but that's coming online.
Japan has just recently announced that carbon removal
can be a part of its existing decarbonization market.
The EU is working on adding it.
The United States already has the 45Q tax policy,
which really expanded during the first Trump administration
to provide up to $180 per ton
for taking invisible gas out of the sky
and either storing it or doing something with it.
So I can see that,
you know, the world is moving in the right direction.
I think the size of it is, there's plenty more room.
The US Department of Energy has invested
more than $3 billion into carbon removal,
mostly in a method called direct air capture
that uses machines to grab onto molecules of carbon,
but it's also going into other methods
that use farming techniques or oceans or rocks mining
and clearly like a, a lot more of that is needed.
<v Brian >Limor.</v>
<v ->So we're definitely in an interesting time</v>
with the new administration coming in.
Forbes wrote a fantastic article
that really mapped things out.
A lot of the IRA funding actually went to Republican states.
So it's unlikely that the governors
are going to want to denounce
or the senators are going to want to give that money back.
So does that, what does that mean? We'll have to see.
So all of everything I'm gonna say is it'll,
we'll have to see, but I think that's one thing
that's important to keep in mind.
Another thing that's important to keep in mind is,
you know, who is the chief advisor
to the president-elect at this point in time,
it's Elon Musk.
He is in battery storage,
that is one of the multi-billion dollar businesses
that he has,
and is actually making more money
than the EV charging business right now
or the EV car business for him right now.
So, you know, as you look at it, and that means he's,
and that's they're selling it to the grid,
through the utilities.
Why? Because the utilities need to become more resilient.
They need to be more sustainable.
And so I think that
that we have to pay attention to that as well.
Also, from the people that I'm speaking to,
they think that things have gone too far down the path
where we can't dial it back completely.
So, okay, so there's something to that.
I think there's also one things that have noticed
is that in different states,
because we talk to different states and they're not all,
let's say sustainability oriented.
So sometimes it's the language.
So they may not want to be talking about sustainability,
but they will want to talk about resilience
of their energy grid for their citizens.
So sometimes it's wording,
sometimes it's nuancing the message
and then you're like, oh, got it.
And also then going back to our business conversation,
if you can show that there is good business in this,
then they will be supportive.
And so, I think, and the governments would be supportive.
So I think it's all about how you are packaging it.
And I'll add one more thing.
In addition to VC, what we're seeing
is that there's tremendous opportunity
to work with family funds to work with nonprofits
such as elemental impact,
that they are sourcing funding from different resources
and you can stack the capital.
So everyone's talking about stacking the capital.
So you might get something from VC,
you might get some loans, i.e., Bank of America is,
has a whole program in sustainability.
Climate First Bank has, is dedicated
to supporting and loan supporting sustainability.
A lot of the banks have this.
So you can actually, and they will work with
different kind of state funding agencies
that will de-risk their loan.
So there are ways of packaging together the funding
so that you can get a loan,
have a de-risk by a state funding aid entity.
So the bank is more inclined
to then offer a lower interest rate,
which makes it much more accessible to then have that ROI
so you can in fact pay back the loan
much more easily and more quickly.
So let's just say there's creativity out there
and people are willing to have those kind of conversations.
<v ->Yeah, I really like this idea</v>
of essentially it's like how do you package and message it
I think that's why like we're seeing this phrase
energy transition take over.
It reminds me of energy independence
back when I was advising in the energy space
a decade ago in my career, at this point.
But I want to focus it,
we have time for a couple more questions
and I wanna kind of look to the future
in terms of first advice and then we'll go technology.
So the first one I wanted to ask was,
and I wanna make sure we have time for both questions,
which is for startups in the sustainability space
hoping to attract funding or to attract that investment,
what advice would you give them
in terms of aligning their business models
with both market demand and environmental impact?
<v ->Yeah, so you know, we,</v>
there's different sources of VC money
and a lot of times when you kind of get to the point
where you have a product concept
is what we're also advising
is you need a customer that's also your investor.
It's basically an incumbent.
So we call these strategics
or CVCs corporate venture capital
where, you know, they're invested
in making sure that they have a roadmap
to a technology that they want
and that they also become a customer.
We think this is vital, especially in deep tech
'cause we're not talking about something that is,
you know, kind of software
or doesn't require something to be actually built.
When we're talking about sustainability investment,
a lot of times it really is a physical object or it's,
or it, we're measuring something that's actually physical.
And so, we're really talking about making sure
to have a wide investor base of key stakeholders.
And at least in deep tech, especially in sustainability,
what that means is having strategics be invested customers
that helps you mature,
but also to be able to use them as advisors
and sounding boards
to make sure you get that proper product market fit
and that you are really able to understand
what is that customer journey or that market,
you know, whether it be supply chain
or just that road to adoption
and being able to understand the key supplier.
So we really think that
that if that was the one single advice
is to say work to the point
where you can have a strategic investor
that will be a big customer moving forward.
<v Brian >Perfect. Tito.</v>
<v ->Yeah, for carbon removal,</v>
like, you know, like I talked about, it's invisible gas,
how the heck are you gonna sell this stuff?
That's key, just building on what you're saying,
like that's what we see with the 187 companies
that have gone through our accelerator program.
They're able to go out and find somebody
who says that, oh yeah, I'll buy $10,000 of carbon
that gets removed from the sky.
We can, maybe we can account it
for our corporate sustainability goals
or maybe it's something we can just kind of learn about
and then to teach other people about or do consulting
or somehow our company can benefit from this.
So if you can find somebody like that,
it's like a customer for carbon removal, then that's a,
that's a huge win.
<v ->Yeah, I will just second it.</v>
Customer, institution, investor. Absolutely.
<v ->Incredible. Incredible.</v>
All right, and so the last question I wanna ask.
So I'm a futurist, so it's always trying to figure out,
you know, how are today's trends shaping tomorrow
and how that applies sustainability.
So looking ahead,
I want to actually have you all
put on a little bit of a futurist cap right now,
is what do you see as the next big opportunity
for sustainable VC investments?
Like what's that technology, what's that emerging market?
<v ->I'll go first.</v>
I think there's definitely a couple of avenues
and I also see things as a continuum,
you know, because to right now, if I had basically said,
you know, compute to support AI,
part of that is what's kind of like right now
except for the fact that it's not, it's generational.
You know, we wanna take steps towards that.
And I think we're at the very beginning of it
in the sense that we're still working with yesteryear's,
you know, architecture for the most part,
we're trying to make it work.
And so I would say for me,
there'd be kind of two main sectors,
which is energy storage.
In the end of the day, battery can only go so far.
We're already at incremental improvements in lithium
and we really need to figure out what that next big thing is
because it has a lot of pros and cons.
You know, if you go try to drive a EV in the dead of winter,
you'll get a real good sense of your range,
you know, for that.
And it's highly combustible.
So, you know, we have that thing going for us.
So I really think it's energy storage
and also a ways to continue to support,
I would say more aggressive compute power,
but with, with actually needing less energy.
<v Brian >Excellent. Tito.</v>
<v ->Yeah, carbon removal.</v>
It's gotta grow as fast as biotech, as fast as computing.
And it is just in its infancy now.
You're seeing early investors jump in,
you're seeing big corporates
like Microsoft, Mitsubishi, Stripe and Shopify
all seeing this as a market opportunity for them.
And if you can get to the point where you see that too
suddenly a lot of things are gonna look like opportunities.
<v Brian >And Limor.</v>
<v ->So I'll add also energy, the gen side of energy.</v>
So energy generation, we still need to, I'll just say it,
we still need to move away from oil and gas and,
but we need to be, we're looking for that next gen,
what is that? Is it micro nuclear? What's beyond that?
What is going to be addressing that? To go to the storage.
But also, and then the on the other side,
how are we doing the end of life?
How are we managing end of life and recycling
all this technology that we say that we're going green,
but you know what? It's not that green.
So can we get greener with a green technology
that we're actually working?
And the third I would say it's data, data, data, data.
How do we use data to become more efficient?
How do we use data to deliver services more effectively?
So I would say those three.
<v ->Excellent.</v>
Corinna, Tito, Limor, thank you so much for your time today.
Thank you all for attending.
And that takes us to the end of our panel
and we'll step off stage,
and of course if people have questions,
feel free to come up and ask us.
But thank you so much for your time today. Thank you.