<v ->Thank you for being here.</v>
Final session in this room of this day.
So you guys are the survivors.
So we're talking about AI
in the context of Hollywood.
My name is Lesley Silverman.
I'm the head of New Technology
at United Talent Agency in Los Angeles.
We're a leading global talent and entertainment company.
And first, before we dive in,
I just wanna acknowledge
that most of us on this panel
live in Los Angeles
and our thoughts and our hearts
are with our family and friends
and those people that we know
who've actually lost their homes.
And luckily we're all safe for now,
but I just wanna acknowledge
that there's a lot going on.
So if any of us seem a little distracted,
I think that's why.
But we're here to talk about AI
in the context of Hollywood,
and I'm very excited to be joined
by experts on this topic
and to learn from each of you this afternoon.
So I'm really looking forward to that.
So let's dive in.
First, I just wanna do some brief intros.
So I'll start with you, Duncan,
maybe you could introduce yourself
and tell us how many times
you've come to CES in the past.
<v ->(laughing) Thanks, Lesley.</v>
My name's Duncan Crabtree-Ireland.
I'm the national executive director
and chief negotiator of SAG-AFTRA,
which is the union that represents professional performers,
broadcast journalists, recording artists.
We say basically anybody who works in front of a camera
or behind a microphone,
that's who we represent.
We have about 160,000 members in the US
and actually around the world.
And this, I believe, is my 21st CES, (laughing)
so.
<v ->Anyone in this room</v>
been here more than 21 times?
Okay, nobody, all right, you win, Duncan.
All right, Momo, you're next.
<v ->Hi, this is Momo Wang.</v>
I'm an animation director.
I used to work as at Illumination Entertainment,
directing the short film and the animation content
for "Minions," "Despicable Me."
And my film, "Penglai",
was shortlist for Oscar 2023,
Best Anime Short.
Also, in the past two years on,
I was engaged with AI filmmaking,
and my AI film, "Until We Meet Again,"
was selected by China National Film Museum.
<v ->Incredible, thank you.</v>
Nik.
<v ->Hey, I'm Nik Kleverov,</v>
chief creative officer of Native Foreign,
a creative agency that's doing a lot with AI.
We had the fortune of actually working
on the Delta keynote here at CES
a couple days ago.
And we're very excited about what AI tools
mean for boutique startup agencies like ours
to create on a top level.
<v ->Fantastic.</v>
Walter.
<v ->My name's Walter Woodman.</v>
I work with a production company
and creative collective called Shy Kids.
And we are probably best known this year
for making a film called "Air Head,"
which was the first kind of short film
made with OpenAI's Sora video model.
<v ->Fantastic.</v>
One other fun fact before we dive in
is that two of our panelists
have produced video content
for the Sphere here in Las Vegas.
That would be Momo and Nik.
So both of them have been in there
and have worked on projects in the Sphere.
Pretty cool.
Okay, so before we jump into conversation,
we're actually, because it's a Hollywood panel,
we're gonna show a few videos.
So let's do that first.
Fantastic.
Round of applause for that.
Okay, we're gonna roll right into the next video.
<v Teacher>Florp, can you come to the front of the class</v>
and tell us what you learned
on your solar vacation?
<v Florp>My name is Florp</v>
and this is the solar vacation video I made
for my trip to Planet 3582,
colloquially, colloquially known as Earth.
Earth is home to over three trillion living entities.
Some of my favorites
are the praying mantis, jellyfish and axolotls.
Of all the creatures on this planet,
the most peculiar is one called the human.
On my trip, my parents informed me
that they had visited these creatures before.
Mom and Dad visited Area 51
on their honeymoon.
Mom warned me never to get close to the humans
because they're dangerous
and because they are scared.
But I was fascinated with their world,
I wanted to experience it.
The carnivals,
eating uncooked water species on grain,
art, discoteques, Black Friday.
<v ->Ah.</v>
<v ->I saw they made</v>
a lot of mistakes,
or what they called, "Oopsies,"
like when they burned down that big library
that had all the knowledge that we gave them,
or when that Austrian duke
went on vacation to Bosnia.
I wondered if they were always like this,
always so scared of things
that they couldn't understand.
What I learned from them
is that even though they do oopsies,
like lots of oopsies,
they keep trying,
and sometimes they get it right.
That's how they made contact with us.
Even if they were the 3582nd planet to do so,
it's still pretty cool.
This was my time with the humans on Earth.
Thank you.
<v Lesley>All right, third and final video.</v>
Uncooked water species
is great.
<v ->This is Native Foreign.</v>
We are a women-owned hybrid creative agency
and production company,
telling your story
elevated by design.
We have many any-grade stock creatives
and are immersed in all the latest technology,
including, yes, AI.
We were birthed from a changing industry
and accept that change is the only constant.
<v ->Toys R Us has just.</v>
<v ->A minute-long promo film</v>
created almost entirely with AI.
<v Reporter>Toys R Us studios and Native Foreign</v>
created the first text-to-video branded AI film.
1.4 billion impressions and counting,
our viral piece reached the entire globe
and started conversations about the future of marketing.
<v Representative>Native foreign exists</v>
to get you high-end creative
anchored in strategy.
Located centrally in Los Angeles, California,
we have a variety of storytelling tools and techniques
at our fingertips.
Native foreign is your story elevated.
<v ->Awesome, okay, thanks, thanks for that.</v>
Really amazing.
So Momo, Walter and Nik,
all videos that you shared.
So I'd love to hear from each of you
what contributions to these videos were human
and what was AI?
Momo, I'll start with you.
<v ->Yeah, I think my video</v>
missed the beginning part. (laughing)
So there was a opening shot, stop motion style,
actually that was shot in stop motion.
And actually the the key frame was made 15 years ago.
I built a puppet 15 years ago.
But thanks to all the reduced workflow with AI,
now I can easily animate it.
And also the piece close to the end,
the "Until We Meet Again" animation,
that's a collaboration with Kling,
and also, the same time,
does a combination with the AI generate visual
and special effects.
<v ->Amazing.</v>
<v ->And also,</v>
in the end, the last frame,
that's the sugar cookie,
the funny dog on the sugar cookie,
that was a hand drawing,
but all the rest, that's Midjourney.
<v ->Really incredible.</v>
And obviously, your taste and your direction?
<v ->Yeah, so my idea, all the idea, creative idea.</v>
<v ->Fantastic.</v>
Nik, do you wanna maybe talk about,
I don't know, any of the pieces
in that reel, yeah?
<v ->Sure, yeah,</v>
I'll just say, to Momo's point,
like one of the interesting things
is that what the AI tools do,
let us creatives do,
is explore ideas that have been locked in a vault
or just not able to be made,
especially with shoestring budgets.
And I think that's pretty exciting
'cause I've also just delved into ideas
I've had for a long time,
and starting to bring them to life
is really exciting.
One of the pieces in there
is a film called "Critters" that we made.
And it was really early AI, GenAI,
it was like almost two years ago,
but we used Dolly
to generate these images
of these like forest critters,
and then we brought 'em to life.
And I think the fun thing about that is,
it was a lot of humans making the thing
and using the tools to bring a vision to life,
and again, kind of to what I said earlier,
that just got nominated for a PGA Innovation Award,
which like for upstart like ours,
we're up against Marvel and ILM
with a piece that we made with like a dozen people.
So it's really cool
to be able to kind of create on that level.
And I see the future
as like a very hybrid approach of using the tools
and our human creativity together.
<v ->Awesome.</v>
Walter, how about you?
What about "Florp?"
<v ->Well, I'm the voice of Florp.</v>
So I just basically talked like this,
and then we pitched my voice up a little bit.
But the script was obviously handwritten by us,
and the voice,
and then the music
is also a song that we made.
I think a great thing about AI
is it breathes life into old things,
and it was this demo of a song that lays around
and you kind of lay it in there
and it's the perfect marriage between these things.
So yeah, there's tons of human fingerprints throughout it,
as well as just editing it all together,
but yeah.
<v ->I love that, and it's so good to be able to show</v>
rather than talk about what might happen with these tools.
So thank you for sharing those pieces with all of us.
Okay, so our topic is the good,
the bad, the unknown.
So let's start with maybe the bad and the unknown, okay?
I'd say there's a lot of fear
and uncertainty out there.
Whether it's displacement of jobs
or IP rights
and potential infringements,
there's a lot that we don't know
about this new suite of tools
or seemingly new suite of tools.
So as a professional working in this field,
what are your perspectives?
So I'll start with you, Duncan.
<v ->Sure, I mean, I think the good, bad and unknown</v>
is a great way to describe
sort of how (laughing) we have to look at
a lot of AI tools now.
And we also have to recognize when we say AI,
we're talking very, very broadly,
because there's a lot of different aspects of AI
and tools that are using AI
that have different implications
for creative talent.
Obviously our members have been very concerned
about what the impact of these tools
is going to be on human creativity,
the participation of humans
in the creative process and the outputs,
and uniquely, I think, or perhaps not uniquely,
but especially for our members,
what that means when people are using their image,
their voice, their performance,
and then using tools to morph it,
change it, recreate it, reuse it,
and under what circumstances that can happen.
And so I think we've sort of looked at this
as two major areas of concern.
One is the area of concern
relating to what we call digital replication.
So that is using someone's image,
voice, likeness, past performance,
for something new,
and establishing some rules of the road for that,
so that it's not the Wild West,
so that people can have confidence
that when they show up to work as a performer,
that they're not essentially in one job
giving away the future of their career,
nor are they letting someone
decide what words to put in their mouth.
I mean, obviously this industry's built on contracts
and things like that,
but there's always been in the real world,
everyone had a veto power
over what they would say or what they would do,
because they obviously would have to actually say it
or do it in order for it to happen.
That's not necessarily true anymore.
And so that creates a great deal of anxiety.
And so I think it's important that we've established,
and we have established in collective bargaining
with the studios, the streamers,
the major record labels,
we're trying to establish
with the video game companies right now,
been on strike for more than six months,
or about six months with them,
the concept basically of informed consent,
saying when someone's voice, image, likeness, performance,
is gonna be altered,
used in a way that they didn't specifically approve of,
they have a right to say yes or no to that,
and they also have a right to be fairly compensated
for that use.
Now, I think that is a consensus
that has developed a lot
since our strike of a year and a half ago.
And I think that clearly
is where we're all gonna end up sooner or later,
once we get the video game companies
and some other stragglers corralled.
The other part is what happens with generative AI
and the creation of fully synthetic performances
that aren't replicating somebody?
Does that take humans out of the process?
And I mean, it's so great to see
the three examples that we have here,
because in none of those examples does that happen,
but it is something that is happening.
And if you doubt me,
I mean, it's happening more in voice right now
than it is in audiovisual,
but if you doubt me,
just go to ElevenLabs website as one example.
Not only them, there's so many.
But there are people out there
who really want to replace human participation
in the creative process
with synthetic AI-generated outputs.
And there are very serious issues with this
about where the training data came from
to create those models,
what kind of impact
that's gonna have on the creative process.
Thankfully, there's very serious
copyright problems with that.
So that's helpful actually
to kind of keep this moving along in a fair way.
But I'll end this rather lengthy point
by just saying the reality is,
the digital replication part,
that is happening now,
has happened already
and is growing rapidly.
The synthetic performance part,
other than in voice,
it's moving more slowly,
and I think it's gonna give us a little bit of time,
so this is maybe the unknown part,
a little bit of time
to try to come up with a more substantial consensus
in the industry
about how to deal with issues like that.
<v ->Yeah, fantastic.</v>
And I think, the fact, one of the things that struck me
when we spoke prior to this panel is,
the way that you're able to see around corners
to anticipate, for example,
that digital replica is coming
and it's gonna be an issue
and we're gonna need to have a position on it,
is because you come to conferences like this one
and you hear people talk
and you kind of anticipate that.
So I loved hearing that.
For the three of you,
maybe just like a slight shift on that question then,
if we're scared, if we think these tools
are gonna replace our jobs, for example,
what are some things,
because the three of you
sort of have like picked up these tools
and really started experimenting with them
until they break.
So can you talk a little bit about
how we should be, if we're afraid,
how we should maybe shift our perspective,
or what you guys did to tackle that?
Momo, maybe I'll start with you.
<v ->Yeah, I don't think we need to scale off AI</v>
because in the past two years
it's been like so many filmmakers,
like somehow that's like a frustrating situation
that so many top filmmakers,
they graduate from the top school, like USCFI,
and then now they are working on,
like the whole casting,
whole like film setup team,
they are working on shooting the short-form content,
which is for like something like a reel short or something,
and like they show like 80-pages script in a week
and also with all logical stories.
So yeah, that's their only job
we can find in the past two years.
I mean, before the rise of AI,
it's already the shifting
of a viewing and watching hobby of a new generation,
and the audience,
they already changed the whole industry.
I feel like, yeah, I mean,
AI actually that's a really good tool
for like help the filmmakers have another voice,
especially the personal voice,
to still use their talent.
I feel that's one point of view.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->And yeah.</v>
<v ->Great.</v>
<v ->Yeah, I would say, for us,</v>
the AI hasn't really changed
the way that we do projects.
We still have projects kind of set up
with the same types of structure.
I look at a lot of the AI things we do
as like a main title sequence,
and that is something, in my past,
I did a lot of titles for shows.
The most notable one is "Narcos."
And in that process, we have a creative director,
art director, designers, animators, editors,
and like we still have all those people
doing all those things.
So, for us, it's really just a tool we're using
to kind of actually do more projects,
which is exciting.
We've (laughing) actually been creating more jobs
because we're hiring more people
and doing more things.
And I'm a big believer
in shooting things in person still.
I love filming, I love working with actors.
And I do think a hybrid way
where we get to still showcase the talents of actors,
but then maybe get to tell bigger stories
in more efficient ways.
We're not doing like these crazy insane VFX sequences,
maybe we can use AI
to kind of achieve some of that.
It echoes what Cord Jefferson said
at the Oscars the other year,
"Instead of like the one $200 million movie,
let's look at making 40 $5 million movies," or whatever.
So I'm excited about it.
And yes, I think, as technology grows and changes,
of course there are going to be positions and jobs
that are going to be displaced.
Like do we have matte painters anymore in film?
Probably not, but there's always gonna be a degree of that.
But I think staying ahead of it is exciting
and making sure that everyone can prosper
while the technology inevitably keeps moving forward.
<v ->Walter, I'm gonna see if I can,</v>
through mental telepathy,
get you to tell me the thing
that you told me on the prep call
about the experience of working
both with AI and actors,
and how that has changed your process as a director.
<v ->Yeah, well, I mean,</v>
it's so good to have real actors and real performances.
And there's like a real magic to that.
And I think that constantly on a film set
what you're trying to do is fight the clock.
You're burning daylight,
you're fighting daylight.
And for us, what we found
when we were working with AI
was it actually opened up more collaborations
where the actors and everybody on the creative team
was like more open to sharing ideas,
because normally, as the director,
you just tell everyone what to do.
And now people can try stuff,
they can attempt something
and they can show everyone
and they could go, "Well, what about this?"
And instead of that being like,
"Oh, no, we'll never have enough time
and space to do that,"
I think sometimes this opens up some time and space
to do things.
And that's what, for me,
is really exciting,
And it's allowed for, on our team,
our producer is an actor,
and so she feels far more invested in the process
than normally she would be,
'cause it was sort of like, "Stay in your lane,"
and now it's a little bit more like,
"Oh, what do you think?
Let's all kind of talk about it."
<v ->Those are great messages.</v>
Yeah, Momo.
<v ->I share</v>
For creator side, I would like to share
that something feeling really like downside for it.
I mean, I feel so many people,
they are like mistaken
believing that AI is a shortcut to creativity,
and then became that's so many people,
they are thinking, "Oh,
so when they can quickly mastering AI tools
in the short period,
and then immediately they can create excellent work."
But actually for all the great work
is driven by creative original idea content
and also professional expertise.
Those are request much longer term
to train and study.
And there was so many filmmakers, like creators,
especially like right now, after the rise of AI,
it's creating a illusion,
make people believing they can do this shortcut,
but actually that's not really gonna help the creators.
<v ->Yeah, it's like, everyone has a phone in their pocket</v>
that has a camera,
it doesn't make everyone a photographer.
And I think that if it looks easy,
then it's probably the years
that it took to get there,
not just the press of a button.
And when you were talking about, "What's the negative?"
I think, as you were kind of mentioning, Duncan,
that AI is this blanket term,
I mean, go downstairs at CES.
If spellcheck came out today,
they would say, "AI spelling tool,"
And I think that AI can be this kind of coverall term
that can mean so many things,
but I think that they're actually just tools
that really require someone in the driver's seat
who is conscientiously making decisions
in order for them to work.
It's not just, "Here you go."
And for me, that's been a negative
of people just being like,
"Well, just use your AI and fix it."
It's like, (laughing)
"What do you mean?"
<v ->Oh my gosh.</v>
From a like client education perspective,
'cause obviously we're doing originals,
but also a lot of client stuff,
I do constantly deal with like,
"Oh, well, can't the AI just make this like tomorrow?
I saw on LinkedIn
that someone made like a short film in an hour
and it's a masterpiece,"
but there's always more to it than that.
<v ->That's right.</v>
Suddenly everyone's an expert.
<v ->Well, and I think that's part of the point</v>
that needs to be made,
and I mean, really, the problem is not creative talent
in the form of directors, producers, writers,
who are using AI tools
to help advance their creative efforts
and their storytelling.
The problem is companies
that are so focused on cost-cutting
that they want to try and force the use of these tools
in ways that don't actually advance
the creative process.
And the case that we at SAG-AFTRA are making to them is,
if you're in the entertainment business,
what makes you unique,
what makes you special
and what makes your company
and what you create valuable
is the human creativity
that contributes to that result,
to that incredible piece of art.
And if you eliminate that
and what you do is focus entirely on using these AI tools
to streamline processes and to cost-cut,
then what you're doing
is giving up the special advantage that you have.
And now, if that's what you train the consumer to want,
every AI company out there
can do the exact same thing that you can do,
and they can probably do it cheaper,
and your competitive advantage
and what makes your business successful is gone.
So you have to cultivate and value
the human creativity and those relationships,
which are what make your companies unique and special.
And I think that message
is starting to resonate a bit.
<v ->That's a perfect segue,</v>
because I wanted to ask you guys,
what legacy media companies have done interesting work,
have used these tools effectively?
Or alternatively, whose knee-jerk reaction
kind of in retrospect doesn't look so innovative?
Walter, yeah.
<v ->Well, they can reach out to me.</v>
The Disneys and all of them,
we're open for business.
But I think that there's still like an apprehension,
and I think like rightfully so
that there's an apprehension,
'cause it's kind of like a black box
where no one really knows exactly what it means.
What I will say that was like a fascinating thing
after "Air Head" was released was on Twitter,
as you can imagine, the vitriol,
we had all these people,
like I think I counted 40 people
told me to kill myself,
which is like pretty crazy.
But a lot of it was coming from the VFX community,
which is like our community,
which is the place where we were raised.
And it just strikes me as,
I was watching this ILM documentary
about the making of ILM,
and it was the exact same conversation
when they moved from puppets and small VFX
into digital VFX,
and now we've created this whole new industry.
It's the same thing as if I told you 20 years ago
that the number-one job that kids would want
is to be a influencer,
you would be like, "What are you talking about?"
And I think that there's just this general thing
that it either has to be this or that.
And I think that there's actually something new
that it could be.
It doesn't need to be this or that,
it could be a little bit of this.
And I think that we also have a bunch to learn
from those companies,
as much as they have to learn from us.
<v ->So maybe some of the examples, good or bad,</v>
we don't even know
that they're leveraging this technology, right.
Any other takes on this one?
Good ahead, yeah.
<v ->Well,</v>
I'll shock you and give you a good example,
which actually goes back to Disney and to Lucasfilm,
and like "The Book of Boba Fett,"
some of the projects they've done
where they've used Respeecher
to replicate voices of original characters.
But they are doing that with consent,
with compensation,
and in fact, are actually using actors
who do the voice work now
whose voices are then modified
using their AI tools
to resemble or to replicate the voices
of the original actors,
such as James Earl Jones, for example,
but others as well.
And they're also doing that
with on-camera performance as well.
And I think, from our point of view,
we're not here saying that AI should be banned.
Some of our members feel that way,
that's not the position that we're taking.
What we're saying is
that if you're gonna use these kinds of tools,
it has to be done in a respectful, ethical way.
And if you've got consent,
you're fairly compensating people,
that's the pathway
to an appropriate, human-centered,
like augmentative use of AI,
and something that I think the creative community
can appreciate and get behind,
and also helps you create something really special
in the content that you're creating.
So I think that's one good example.
<v ->I'm not shocked that it was a good example,</v>
but thank you, that was a great one.
Momo.
<v ->Yeah, so last year,</v>
one of my favorite film,
that "Furiosa," and Warner Brother.
So the child actress,
the face look exactly like Anya Taylor.
I mean, because they were using AI
to mix the face together.
And yeah, it's a good example,
but on the same time,
last year, in China,
there was a film called "The Traveler,"
which is top director and casting,
and that's a feature live-action film,
and including a 20-minute flashback process with AI.
So it was double the fusion.
But it is because the final resort,
the quality wasn't very good.
So negative comments kind of killed the box office.
So there's a feeling that if,
I think the application of AI,
ideal application of AI using,
it's a high level, high degree of realism and completeness.
So they will be more acceptable for audience,
and then it's gonna make more sense
and help people to wildly adopt AI technology in industry.
<v ->Excellent, okay, I'm gonna move us on.</v>
What is a way that AI
could be used in the context of Hollywood,
you decide where,
that we're not thinking about,
that we haven't thought about
and that we should be thinking about?
Who wants to start?
<v ->Yeah, I think, for me,</v>
what is really interesting
is I think there's a lot of films
that we go and see in the theater
'cause they're a spectacle,
and I think that there is a sort of limited amount of people
who have the access to make those spectacle films.
And what I'm really excited about seeing
is like new film communities pop up.
Like I don't know if anyone watches Nollywood films,
it's like Nigerian action movies
that are--
<v ->Any hands, any hands?</v>
No.
<v ->Any Nollywood fans?</v>
Anyways, there are these like amazing films made in Nigeria
that are like super-crazy, low-budget like wild films.
And like my question is,
when they have access to making their effects
look a lot better
and making things look better,
where do those communities kind of pop up?
So I think what you're gonna see
is a lot of new hotbeds for cinema
that have not had the ability
to like play with the big boys, so to speak,
that I think would be really interesting.
Where's that next place gonna be?
<v ->It's gonna come from the bottom up, I think.</v>
And I think what's exciting is,
we're gonna get to see all of these new stories
from all edges of the world be told,
and we're gonna find some incredible films
being made by people we've never heard of.
I think it's gonna be an interesting mix
of the people in top Hollywood,
but also just complete upstarts,
and to Walter's point,
being able to actually get to a result quicker.
And then once those effects, let's say,
and that level of, let's say, quality is ubiquitous,
then what sets your film apart?
And then I think we do
have just this really strong emphasis on story
and what your unique point of view is
and what story you wanna tell
about life and anything.
<v ->Right.</v>
<v ->Well, and now I'll add something different,</v>
which is not exactly creative,
but I think is true.
AI can also be used in a totally different way
to help enforce rights obligations,
to better track and reduce the friction
of the transactional part of the industry.
And to the extent that it's used for that,
I think that will be great,
because I think it'll be great for creative talent
to receive their appropriate contractual payments
in a more timely and consistent manner.
And I think it would be great to know
that there's a way to make that process happen
with less sort of weight on it,
so that it's not taking up
so much of the resources of the industry to do it,
to carry it out.
And so then perhaps more of those resources
can be devoted to the creative process.
So I'd love to see AI used in that direction.
<v ->Working at a talent agency,</v>
plus one to that,
like couldn't agree with you more.
We want our clients to be paid
and we want them to be paid quickly.
Okay, I'm gonna move us on.
Duncan, I'm coming over to you.
So you mentioned Respeecher,
what AI companies does SAG-AFTRA
think are going about this kind of season of AI
the right way?
And are there companies
who you wish would reach out,
maybe a postcard from the stage
to those companies? (laughing)
<v ->(laughing) Well, first of all,</v>
let me just say, we don't endorse any companies,
because obviously companies, like people, are complicated.
Having said that, there are a few
that I can mention specifically
that we think have adopted a good approach here.
One that we've been talking about for a long time
is Flawless AI,
which is focused on using GenAI technology to modify,
among other things,
facial movements of performers,
for a variety of purposes,
but one of those purposes, for example,
is to improve dubbing.
So that instead of the dubbing script
having to be changed to match the mouth movements
in the original language,
you can actually directly translate the script
and adjust the mouth movements
to match the human dubbing performance
that goes with that.
And I think that's a great example
of improving the result of dubbing
without taking away the human creative element.
Another great example is a company called Ethovox
we've just signed an agreement with recently,
which is looking to create
a fully ethically sourced foundational model
for digital voice replicas for use,
among other things, in video games.
And so one of the real challenges we all face
with AI foundational models
is there are almost none of them
that have actually been sourced
with fully consented content.
And this is a huge battle,
there's all kinds of litigation going on.
I certainly hope and SAG-AFTRA hopes
that the result of that
is a clear decision by the courts
that that is wrong to just take people's content
and use it to train foundational models
without consent or compensation.
But regardless of the outcomes of that,
this company has said,
"We're building a model from the ground up
where all of the data,
all the training data is fully consented,
ethically sourced, and we can prove it."
And so I think that's really great.
So unlike most of our contracts,
this is not a company
that's looking to create the end product, the output.
This is a company that's looking to create
the foundational model to then be made available
to video game companies and others
for digital voice replication.
Those are just a couple of the examples.
There are many others, Replica Studios,
Replika Media is another example
of a company that's doing something like that.
And we even have an advertising-related platform
called Narrative that we've done an agreement with,
that has agreed to apply these full protections
and let performers sort of dip their toe in,
letting their digital replicas
perform audio commercials for digital use,
but also, if they decide that's not for them,
to then stop that
and not have their face voice, et cetera,
used in perpetuity in these digital models
that have been created.
So I think there's a lot of companies
and people who wanna do the right thing,
and we certainly wanna lift them up.
And I think there's a lot that have some way to go.
And I guess if I had to call out any one group,
I would say the major video game companies
that we're still locked in this strike against.
I mean, this strike is all about AI
and it's about informed consent and fair compensation,
and I feel like that's a concept
that we should all already be on board with.
This shouldn't have to be so difficult.
And I really wish those companies
would come back to the table with a mindset of,
"Yes, let's give all performers
who work in video games
appropriate consent rights and fair compensation
when we're creating replicas of their performance."
<v ->Yeah, thank you for that.</v>
I'm just gonna stay with you for one more moment,
because I asked you to invite companies
to come to the table.
I had this experience working on a deal actually
where we insisted, "Don't come to us,
go to SAG-AFTRA first, have a discussion,
this is about performers,
have a discussion and come back to us."
And I just wanna say, I think that process,
if a company's feeling shy
about wanting to work in this area
and not knowing what to do,
that you can be a great ally,
and also not halt the process.
It was like a week-and-a-half-long process,
it was really incredible.
You can say more about it if you'd like to.
<v ->Yeah, I mean, first of all,</v>
I really appreciate you saying that,
because I know that when you're like in a company
and you don't deal with this sort of thing all the time,
and you've seen the strikes
got a lot of press attention in 2023 and all of that,
I know that can seem scary.
But in actuality, I gave you some examples,
we've got a long list of companies
we've been able to work out deals with,
it doesn't necessarily take a long time.
The example you're talking about
is a very big company
that really needed a very specific use case,
and we were able in a matter of a couple of weeks
to work out an agreement with that company
that let them do what they wanted to do,
but also ensured that those performers
had their basic rights
of informed consent and fair compensation upheld.
So I absolutely encourage and welcome companies
to reach out to us.
We reach out to companies as well.
It doesn't have to be
and isn't an adversarial process,
it's a process of trying to work together
to just make sure those basic respects
and ethics are upheld.
And with that framework,
there's a lot we can do together.
<v ->Amazing, okay.</v>
In our last few minutes here,
what are we talking about on this stage next year?
If you could kind of look in your crystal ball.
And I'll start down at the end with Walter,
and then make our way back.
<v ->Oh man.</v>
I was at the massage chair booth.
So some sort of
massage chair future.
No, I think what will be really interesting is,
when we start to see the small companies come up
and we start to see those companies get legitimized
with the awards and Oscars
and those types of things--
<v ->One of those companies being Shy Kids?</v>
<v ->Of course, we're gonna find our funder tonight,</v>
and we're gonna be talking about this very moment,
they're gonna play this clip,
and it's gonna be very cool.
But I think another thing
that I've been thinking a lot about
is like the indivisualization of stories
I think will be really cool,
of what happens when you can add your kid
into an episode of "Bluey" or something like that?
I think that there's a,
I don't know, I see that being something.
<v ->I love that prediction.</v>
Nik.
<v ->Yeah, obviously the big takeaway</v>
is that there's no magic button,
you need creatives,
and great storytelling will ultimately win.
I'm actually as curious as you are
to see what happens by next year.
<v ->Yeah, I feel no matter is the film or other industry,</v>
the keyword's still the talent,
I'm looking forward to see more like filmmakers,
they can learn this new tool
and create more amazing films,
including the feature films,
this year, also the coming years.
<v ->And I guess I'll make two predictions.</v>
One is I think we'll see more technology
that integrates the process
of securing consent from performers
and maybe even from other people into a workflow
for people who are doing production,
so that it is less of like an exceptional thing
that seems so complicated
and more of a, "Here's this, click the button."
We've already seen this starting to happen
with the company Flawless I mentioned,
and integrations into Avid and Pro Tools
and things like that.
The other prediction I'll make is,
we're gonna see more technology
that's gonna integrate the GenAI synthetic creation
of video and audio together,
because we've been seeing that as sort of split out,
not as much together.
And that's gonna be positioned for consumer use.
But what's going to actually answer that question
is what Walter said,
which is the fact that you have a camera in your pocket
doesn't make you a photographer,
and the fact that there will be broader public access
to those tools won't mean that anyone in the general public
is going to be able to really create
compelling content from that.
I think that that will have its moment,
and then that moment will rapidly fail
to find a foothold with a broader audience.
<v ->Well, great predictions from all of you.</v>
Let's give a huge round of applause to
our speakers this afternoon.
Thank you.
And thank you all for being such a great audience
at the end of the day on Thursday.
I know you're all tired,
so thank you for being with us.
And enjoy the rest of your week at CES.