<v ->So, welcome to today's session</v>
on Automotive Cybersecurity Revs Up.
I think I see a lot of faces, so thank you for joining.
Good morning to all of you.
So, I would be the moderator.
My name is Debasish, so you can call me Deba.
Just a brief introduction about me.
I am joining from Wipro.
I had automotive practice
within Wipro's engineering edge business line.
Also, I'm the distinguished member within Wipro
for my two and a half decade contribution in mobility
and the automotive space.
So, friends, as we are stepping
into the new era of connected vehicle,
and as you know, software is hitting the world syndrome,
is now a stark reality in automotive industry.
We are seeing a numerous cybersecurity
and privacy challenges.
So, we are fortunate
to have three eminent leader from industry leaders.
They would enlighten us with their deep insight
on how to combat with these challenges.
They would explain us the engineering approach,
standardization, regulation,
innovation happening in this space.
Without any further ado,
let me welcome our distinguished panelists.
Let us start with Cindy Warner.
She joined from 360ofme. She's the co-founder and CEO.
So, let us hear more from her.
<v ->Thanks, Deba,</v>
and thanks everybody for coming early session.
Lots of things going on last night,
so thank you for being here.
I'm Cindy Warner, as Deba said.
I'm the founder and CEO of 360ofme, a data privacy company.
We provide a data privacy layer that is industry-agnostic
and also tech stack-agnostic.
Prior to being the founder of this company,
I spent four decades
as a partner in Big 4 consulting,
doing systems consulting work.
I'm an architect, systems architect by trade,
but I've done hundreds
and hundreds of global 1,000 systems implementation.
So, I hail from a deep technology background,
and really appreciative of being on the panel,
so thank you.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
Next, I think we will go with John.
John joined us from Eaton
and he is chair of multiple standardization body,
so let's hear more from him, so we can really understand
what guidance he has for all of you.
<v ->Yeah, good morning, everyone. Pleasure to be here.</v>
A little bit of background on myself
and first of all,
the functional excellence lead in product, cybersecurity,
and functional safety at Eaton Corporation.
And then, as far as giving you a little bit
of background in my experience, I've been involved
with cybersecurity all the way from medical devices,
a vital signs monitoring system, both the embedded device
in the server side system through telematics,
through all the way
to autonomous vehicle systems, infotainment systems,
and various applications within automotive.
So, one of the areas I specialize in
is the intersection of functional safety and cybersecurity.
And I'm currently chair, as he mentioned,
of the vehicle cybersecurity systems
engineering committee at SAE.
That also makes me co-convener
with ISO on joint working group efforts between ISO
and SAE and automotive cybersecurity.
That would include
the automotive cybersecurity standard, ISO/SAE 21434.
Road vehicles is titled,
Road Vehicle Cybersecurity Engineering.
And I'm also involved in subsequent efforts in that area,
which hopefully we'll get a chance to talk about.
<v ->Thank you, John.</v>
Next but not last, but not the least,
I think we would like to welcome Jurgen Mueller.
He joined us from IAV
and he has a deep insight
on end-to-end cybersecurity for connected vehicle.
Let's hear more from him. Jurgen?
<v ->Yes. Thank you.</v>
Very warm welcome from my side as well.
And I must admit, so cybersecurity must be a topic,
otherwise not so many people would be here
at nine o'clock at Las Vegas, so thank you for that.
Yes.
So, I started my career actually in life science,
not in automotive.
And so, I basically learned
what safety is, functional safety is.
And when I stepped into the automotive world,
so I was socialized in the others world
and there I learned that it's difficult to maintain
or achieve functional safety without security,
especially in a connected vehicle.
And therefore, so I really gained a lot of experience
in developing E/E architectures and platforms including HPC,
so high performance computing.
And so, we had to deal a lot with security.
And one of the really hard lessons
was so as if you don't do it from the beginning.
So, it's very difficult in the very end.
So, the one of the...
John is laughing, yeah.
So, it's one of the key experiences was,
so do you develop a product without security,
and then at a certain point, you decide to be secure,
and then you switch on security and nothing is working.
So, we learned the hard way in short words.
And now, I'm at IAV and I'm responsible for a division,
it's called connected software services.
And basically, so we take care
of the main technology pillars of the SDV
and cybersecurity is one of them.
<v ->Great.</v>
I think we are now, we know all of us.
So, my first question,
I think I will take the cue from Jurgen,
first question to you.
As we are moving to these,
vehicles are becoming always connected.
And mask skills software registration is taking place
as you explained in your experience as well.
I would like to know
what it means to the automotive cybersecurity.
That is the first question.
And the second question is,
how do you think that auto manufacturers
are gearing towards these challenges?
<v ->Yes, so certainly, so the always connected vehicles</v>
and the integration of software from multiple sources
will have an effect
in which transform the security landscape
of the car manufacturers.
The connectivity or the communication
introduces a lot of numerous tech vectors
and the integration of third party software
from different sources of course increases that as well.
We don't think so far that open source is a risk.
So, we believe it's more an opportunity
because of its transparency.
And this transparency
allows basically global developer communities
to constantly or continuously innovate
and improve those software.
And that mean will result in better security
and better functionality.
But so, it's probably John is well-aware of that.
So, the society or the legislations are already in place
to issue regulations and standards to basically establish
what we call a unified security foundation,
and then ensure that the car manufacturers
incorporate comprehensive security measures
in the development processes.
And technically, the car manufacturers
are incorporating security measures now
on an end-to-end scale actually
to protect the entire vehicle ecosystem.
And so, parts of that are of course encryption methods,
introducing secure communication protocols,
and not to forget all kinds of monitoring actually.
And for us, so this is one thing
where cybersecurity agility, as we call it, comes into play,
because it gives you the ability to modify
and optimize your current product in the field.
And so, it means you can change the software architecture
which is necessary then to react and minimize,
to react on threats
or to minimize the possibility of threats.
And one part of it,
and that is probably very important in the next 5
to 10 years is what we call crypto-agility.
And that means that we keep the crypto components,
the crypto methods up-to-date,
especially if we introduce quantum computers.
So, quantum computers have the potential to really hack
or break the current crypto methods.
And so, the car makers really invest
in what we call post-quantum cryptography
to be future future-proof.
And there's one thing which is not so obvious
and that is what most
of the car manufacturers already implement as well.
And that is a centralized software management
in order to streamline updates
and to maintain control over software versions in the field.
And that is of course ensuring that the improving security,
but on the other side,
it's improving consistent performance
and availability as well.
And in the very end, it probably saves costs as well.
So, in summary, the industry is well-aware of that
and is evolving to meet the challenges.
So, by really introducing being compliant with standards,
so UNECE 5156 and the ISO 21434.
And on the other side, embracing cybersecurity agility
to really maintain a secure product of our lifetime.
<v ->Yeah, just to continue what Jurgen explained.</v>
So, it is understood that cybersecurity
need to be considered at every point
in the vehicle development lifecycle.
As we have John who has been the chair of SAE
and also the co-convener of ISO
and the standardization bodies.
So, I would like to request John
to give us his insight on the standardization,
what the rational
and what is the potential benefit
we can get if we follow this.
And also,
I would like to add one more question to you, John,
is if I look at from the end user's point of view,
from the end user's point of view,
what must follow to protect their future?
<v ->Yeah, well, first of all,</v>
fundamentally as Jurgen had mentioned,
what should be done by both OEMs, tier ones,
everyone in the supply chain,
everyone involved in automotive cybersecurity
is the application of the ISO/SAE 21434.
Again, cybersecurity engineering.
And note, it says cybersecurity engineering.
He brought up many great points
and one of 'em being, it's not a bolt-on.
Cybersecurity is an engineering discipline.
So, it's very complicated
and evolves everything from systems
to software, to hardware, you name it.
So, 21434.
One of the benefits of following it
is it helps promote consistency throughout the life cycle
and conscious decision making.
So, it helps you both assess and manage cybersecurity risk.
So, what I tell people is, they say,
hey, John, should I do X in cybersecurity?
Whatever that may be.
And my first answer is, well,
did you do a risk assessment on it,
or in 21434 terms, a threat analysis and risk assessment.
It ultimately helps you decide
if a threat scenario were to be encountered,
what is the associated impact?
What would happen and what is the feasibility?
So, following 21434 is fundamental.
Procedurally, it's ultimately the foundation
and it's all the way from throughout the entire life cycle,
from concept phase, all the way through decommissioning.
So, whether you're dealing with vulnerabilities
in the middle of the life cycle,
whatever, it's throughout the entire life cycle.
Now, that's talking about it procedurally process-wise.
Then, we of course have to understand
that well, there's a technical aspect too,
and one of the reasons we did not get
into the technical aspects of 21434
is because whatever we publish
could be obsolete three months later.
So, it's gotta be a framework
that's gonna be stand the test of time.
So, from a technical perspective,
you need to, as an organization,
be very careful in your technical implementation.
So, you would use things
such as SAE best practices and standards.
There's best practices in terms of test methodologies.
Also, J3101 for hardware-protected security.
What type of features should be available in your hardware?
As I indicate, software cannot protect software.
It's gotta be founded in hardware.
So, how do you actually have a good design
that's gonna stand the test of time?
So, leveraging NIST Special Publications,
special publications that actually deal
with secure development lifecycle and cryptography.
So, you properly apply cryptography.
Like one of the mistakes that can occur
is you've applied cryptography,
but you have an error in implementation.
So, that is a threat vector that can be used.
It actually can make your system quite weak
if you have a flaw in implementation.
So, carefully following NIST Special Publications
or other publications like that.
And then, another aspect that's also important
is staying up-to-date on cybersecurity.
Unfortunately, what we released today,
one of the things, if you've never gone to a DEF CON
or any cybersecurity conference, I highly recommend it.
You will walk out paranoid.
And it's actually, I think it's a good thing,
because I've actually got a podcast
that I call "Healthy Paranoia".
I think it's very good for both end users
and engineers to have a sense of paranoia,
to a certain extent,
to help you keep you on your edge.
So, you have to stay up-to-date
with threat intelligence information,
what's happening out in the field,
what is happening, what are researchers doing
to understand the current threat landscape.
So, organizations like the Automotive ISAC,
that stands for the Information Sharing and Analysis Center.
Participating in that, participating in hacking conferences.
And ultimately having that healthy sense of paranoia.
Now, going to your last question
from an end user perspective,
it really boils down to the typical normal practices.
If there's a patch, apply it, don't wait.
That patch could have critical cybersecurity vulnerabilities
that are addressed.
So, I know it's all of us have a tendency, well, I'm busy,
I'm not gonna apply the patch.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->Patch early and often.</v>
If there's a patch, apply it, do not wait.
And typical cybersecurity best practices,
good passwords, don't use 1234,
or something silly like that.
Basically, basic cyber hygiene is very important.
Another aspect that is important
not only to basic cyber hygiene,
but being very careful
as to what you're allowing to be connected to your system.
So, yes, your car can be connected
to everything under the sun,
but remember that when you do connect your car
to everything under the sun,
who knows what you're connected to and its vulnerabilities,
its weaknesses, that system gets hacked.
I think we've probably all heard
about the famous hack in Las Vegas,
where a casino got hacked through a fish tank feeder.
They weren't trying to get into the fish tank,
they used the fish tank feeder to get into the system.
So, be very careful what you connect to.
So, those are some basic best practices.
<v ->Yeah, it's a great insight, John.</v>
I'll switch the topic a little bit.
We discussed the cybersecurity,
but I think the privacy also plays a very,
very important role, and it's little different.
So, we have Cindy with us.
I would like to understand
that when we do the data exchange,
how to make sure that there is enough trust
between the enterprise and the end users?
<v ->Yeah, thanks, Deba.</v>
And that's obviously John and Jurgen
work in the cybersecurity space.
I do not work in the cybersecurity space
and our company is not in the cybersecurity space.
We're in data privacy.
And I would tell you that in the automotive space,
probably the greatest concern
we have is keeping a car connected.
And you probably all just are like,
what is she talking about?
There's a high propensity for people today,
because of a lack of trust
with unethical data use in the automotive industry
for people to disconnect their cars.
If you look at the trial period
of somebody buying a new car,
we just got some data not terribly long ago from one
of the largest OEMs who I'll leave nameless that said,
after the trial period, 80% of people disconnect their cars.
Now, I don't know how in the world
you update software in a car when the car is disconnected.
Maybe some of you here have some great ideas
you could share with me, but I haven't figured it out yet.
And so, we, I believe,
have to focus on ethical data use in the automotive industry
as a core component of attempting
to have software-defined vehicles become something
that is really has delivers the promise
and the prospect that you'll see on the show floor here
and that every OEM talks about.
We did a session last night,
it was really insightful, with the World Economic Forum.
They have a center for trusted technology,
it's called CTT, that you should follow.
And their whole mission is to say,
how can we, these are my words, not theirs,
how can we take ethical data use to a new level
with a social contract with people that are required
to give personal
and sensitive data in order for a device to work?
At the end of the day, a car's a device.
It's no different than what your watch is or whatever.
It's connected device.
And so, all that data
that the automotives need for that car to operate properly,
the connectivity, the personal information,
the GPS that's coming off the car,
all of those whatever, 65 data points and sensors
that are in that telematics stream,
have to be protected and have to be used ethically.
If for anybody that's been following some
of the data privacy legislation in the federal government
that hopefully will get passed here in 2025,
one of the biggest facets of that bill is data minimization.
And so, what I would say to all of you
in the automotive space,
just because that pipe coming into a car has 65 or whatever,
we did a POC and found about 65 sensors,
that data was coming into the car and that telemetry,
just because it has 65 data fields,
data points, and sensors,
doesn't mean you have the right to use those.
What it means is that you have to ask the consumer
if you can use that data
and get consent to use that data,
and make sure it's the consumer
that is telling you you can use that data,
not a deep fake that's telling you you can use that data.
And then, you have to minimize the data stream
down to the data they authorized
and consented for you to use.
It's not a, this is not like some weird proposition.
It's really three things.
Verify the person giving you consent
is that person, not a deepfake.
Giving you consent to do it.
And third, minimize the data
and don't use the data nefariously,
and they will have a value exchange with you.
If they don't, they'll disconnect the car.
<v ->Thank you. I think this is very, very important aspect.</v>
Now, I will change the topic a little bit.
Next question is to John again.
So, we have, Cindy, safe,
you are part of the safety as well as the cybersecurity.
That's why it would be great if you can give your insight.
Is it a complimentary to each other
or is there any conflict?
If there is any conflict happens
during the system engineering
between safety and security, what is the way to resolve it?
<v ->Yeah, that's a good question.</v>
For functional safety, just for those in the room
that may not be aware of what exactly is functional safety,
ultimately, you're looking at if a failure occurs
in your vehicle, an electrical system
or electrical or electronic system.
And of course cybersecurity's looking at from the aspect
of an attack on that system,
someone's trying to do something malicious.
So, fortunately, they're really,
I guess, they're really complimentary.
There are various points within the life cycle
where it's vital that the two disciplines interact.
And when I say interact or what I call touch points,
that they interact and work very collaboratively together.
So, collaboration is critical.
So, it goes all the way to the beginning of the life cycle,
where you're defining what's called the item definition,
if you're in the functional safety or cybersecurity world.
In other words, agreement.
And what is the system that we are addressing?
So, both parties are in agreement.
This is the boundary of that system.
This is what we're assessing.
So, you work together to do the item definition.
And at various points in the life cycle,
we give some examples.
Functional safety will come up with a goal.
They'll see a particular failure
and they'll say, well, because of that failure,
let me give an example.
A failure might be a vehicle safety message
that's supposed to say, break,
turn the brakes on, or something like that.
So, safety might say, well, you have to make sure
that message has integrity, so when the receiver gets it,
they know some bit hasn't flipped
in the message due to noise or something like that.
So, they'll add what's called like
a cyclic redundancy check or a CRC check to it.
Well, now, cybersecurity looks at that
and says, well, if I was an attacker,
you're just using a basic CRC,
I'm going into little technical details.
I could mimic that as an attacker
and I could say, disabled breaks,
and send a valid, perfectly valid message.
I could perform an attack on that.
So, then I say, well, I've gotta know who sent the message,
not just the message has integrity,
is this an authentic message?
Should I listen to this message?
And so, we'll say, well gee,
we need to add a digital signature.
Well, that digital signature will need special hardware
to do the cybersecurity computations in a secure enclave.
Again, cybersecurity has to be rooted in hardware.
Well, now, I've introduced special hardware
that hardware can fail.
So, now, I could fail in my cybersecurity calculation
causing a failure in the functional safety message.
So, now, functional safety needs to be informed about that.
So, it's not that they conflict, you need to coordinate.
So, you make them aware of, okay, now we need
to consider the failure of your cybersecurity component.
And then, cybersecurity also needs
to look at safety impacts.
Like one of the things you look at
from a cybersecurity perspective
is if this attack were to occur, what's gonna happen
is somebody gonna get their finger pinched,
somebody to get severely injured,
or heaven forbid, somebody would die.
So, you work with the functional safety team, saying,
this is our assessment of the safety impact.
Perhaps the driver could control the situation.
Maybe they attack like the steering wheel,
jerk set of somebody's hands, maybe the driver.
So, maybe you can take controlability.
So, you consult functional safety on that.
And ultimately, the redundancy within functional safety
can help as another example.
So, that's an example where maybe some redundancy feature
in functional safety can help you in cybersecurity.
So, ultimately, it all boils down to within various points,
like when you're doing specific requirements
or deciding requirements, what are those requirements?
So, I understand what functional safety is doing,
pretending she's the functional safety engineer.
She understands what I'm doing
from a cybersecurity perspective
and exchange that information
to make sure they're complimentary and not conflicting.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
So, as we understand the system engineering
is not just the cybersecurity,
you have to consider multiple such items,
functional safety, cybersecurity, privacy,
all things need to be considered
and we cannot ignore any of them.
So, that's the beauty.
Thank you for giving this deep insight.
I would like to change the topic a little bit now,
because as we know, AI is a new buzzword.
In my company, we call it AI 360.
If you see around you, everywhere, you will find AI.
So, I would like to ask Jurgen
how AI transform the way the auto manufacturers would detect
and neutralize the threat of tomorrow on real time?
<v ->Yes. (clears throat)</v>
So, AI certainly has a potential to revolutionize detection
and utilization of cybersecurity attacks.
And this is simply due to the fact
that AI algorithms are pretty good in detecting
or analyzing vast amount of datas,
and really detect patterns and anomalies.
And that's why in that case,
so they really can act with a very high speed
and detect those anomalies.
And then, of course, you can initiate in immediate alerts
and react on it.
And so, the really key characteristic is here
that AI really is able to have a, yeah,
achieve a speed and a scale on data
that is unattainable human analysts, so.
And that's why,
so you much faster using AI algorithms than humans.
And on the other side, of course you can use AI
to automate analysis of security logs, for instance,
and detect possible
or indications for threats and attacks.
And one example could be that you detect those
and you detect that the system is compromised,
and then the AI is proposing steps for isolation
in order to prevent
or do a kind of containment of that security attack.
So, there's a lot of potential in AI.
And furthermore, actually,
you really can use AI inside the vehicle as well.
So, incorporate AI algorithms
really to analyze all datas from sensors
and communication flows, communication channels, and so on.
So, there's huge potential,
but what you need for that
in order to keep your product future-proof is really this,
what I mentioned earlier, the cybersecurity agility
to be able to exploit the characteristics
of machine learning that such an algorithm
can improve over time using new datas.
And so, being able to detect
and basically deal with emerging new threats.
And so, and that gives you the capability really
to deal with cybersecurity over a lifetime,
which is really important.
So, as John explained,
so cybersecurity is not a static issue.
And AI is a key technology in that.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
So, last question I have,
I think it's a little tricky for you, Cindy.
So, we are hearing the ban on the Chinese software by 2027
and hardware by 2030.
I know that one shoe doesn't fit all approach will work,
but you being part of the US government in some capacity.
So, maybe if you can give some guidance to the team.
Yeah.
<v ->Yeah, thanks, Deb.</v>
And yes, yes, that is a tricky question for sure.
It all has the inflaming power.
So, I'll be careful there.
But I think what I would say is that privacy
and cybersecurity working together can ensure
that the data that bad actors
are trying to get their hands on,
they don't get their hands on it.
It's no more complicated than that.
Obviously, these are all devices with data
that the data has huge value,
and the data in the wrong hands can have huge consequences.
And so, I think actually,
when I look at what John and Jurgen
are doing on the cybersecurity side,
it's really important that a consumer can believe
that their data in a car, whatever that data is,
all the personal and sensitive data
is not getting into the wrong hands for nefarious reasons.
So, we rely a ton on the cybersecurity.
When we look at privacy by design,
that is something that should be in the design cycle.
I think John said cybersecurity
should not be an afterthought.
It should be part of the design cycle.
And it's the same with data privacy.
It should be part of the design cycle.
Privacy by design should be part of the data design as well.
And then, we do the handoff
or the collaboration with our cybersecurity peers
after we've done that data design for the car,
and make sure that they understand the data that's necessary
for some of these systems to deliver the value.
In particular, of course,
some of the infotainment systems
which require a ton of personal and sensitive data,
and how we're both deprecating that data,
anonymizing it, if we are,
whatever we're doing to make sure on the security side,
it doesn't get into the wrong hands
into the nefarious hands.
So, I don't care whether it's the Chinese
or whomever, whether it...
We've seen attacks come from all over all kinds of nations,
not just the Chinese.
So, I don't worry as much that it's just the Chinese
that we're gonna have these bans against,
because candidly in the United States,
bad actors are hacking into consumer-sensitive
and private data all day long, so.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
So, with this, I think we conclude the discussion.
I think because of the time-constraint,
otherwise, the amount
of insight I'm getting from the panelist,
I could have probably taken another one hour.
So, I would like
to get one final word from each of our panelists.
So, maybe, Cindy, you can get started.
<v ->Yeah, sure.</v>
We believe that data privacy
is the tip of the spear in the car.
I spend a lot of time reviewing software-defined vehicles
and the data necessary
to make the dream become a reality
in software-defined vehicles.
And like I said before,
I've yet to figure out how in the world
that dream will become a reality in a disconnected car.
So, I think we have to do everything in our power
to make sure that we have a social contract with consumers,
that their data is not used nefariously,
that we're not selling it to LexisNexis
and our insurance rates aren't rising.
And that consent is part of this equation.
If we wanna take data off the car
and use that data for a value exchange with the consumer,
they have to be able to trust you.
And so, we have to build that social contract
on the data side as a way
to ensure that all of these wonderful notions
of software-defined vehicles come to reality.
<v ->So, John, you.</v>
<v ->Yeah, so kind of a few closing thoughts is,</v>
unfortunately, I think we've got
some major challenges ahead in cybersecurity.
I'm excited about being,
hopefully part of the solution of it.
But with some of the challenges
that I see ahead is as like Jurgen had mentioned,
is quantum computers,
that's gonna upend cybersecurity in a monumental way.
So, fortunately, there's already been work done on that
from NIST, in post-quantum cryptographic algorithms
that have been released.
But the migration path
in automotive to that is gonna be painful.
That's one of it.
And just because of that rapidly threat,
changing threat landscape,
again, I highly recommend you attend a hacking conference
that were really, it really opened my eyes when I went
to one many years ago as to how real these threats are.
That's not just what you're seeing in a movie.
It's actually real what's happening behind the scenes.
So, understanding that rapidly changing threat landscape
and doing something about it,
staying up-to-date on threats,
participating in things like Automotive ISAC,
attending these cybersecurity conferences,
things like embedded security for cars,
conference, et cetera,
participating in standards development, et cetera.
Doing all these things will help us stay up-to-date,
'cause there are major challenges ahead,
but I look forward to tackling those challenges.
<v ->Jurgen, you go next.</v>
Yeah.
<v ->Okay.</v>
So, yeah, I believe that that speed
and flexibility is very critical in cybersecurity.
And the ability really to adapt for new attacks
and to implement effective countermeasures
will probably determine the difference
between successful protection
and significant security breaches.
And as John and Cindy pointed out, it is crucial
that those capabilities are designed into the product
and not only into the vehicle,
into the vehicle and the backend system.
So, the task for the car manufacturers
is to do that accordingly, actually.
And then, I think with a continuous fleet monitoring
and dynamic and agile cybersecurity strategy,
car manufacturers can safeguard their products
and users even with upcoming new complex dangers
or cybersecurity threats.
And so, being future-proof.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
Thank you for all your valuable insight.
It's my pleasure to conduct such an insightful session.
It was really a thought-provoking session for all of us.
I think key takeaway for me
is I think the holistic view is very, very important.
And if we have the holistic view, then we would be able
to place the right safeguard at right place.
But of course, the topic is pretty complicated.
It's may not be good enough for these 40 minutes,
may not be a good enough time to go through all the aspect,
but we try to touch upon the bigger canvas
for of all of us to understand what cybersecurity means.
I would like to thank from bottom of my heart
to all the panelists for sharing their deep insight.
I'm sure that it equip you
to confront some of the challenges.
Of course the future is very volatile.
I'm not sure that we can provide all the insight
to counter all the challenges of future,
but if we probably follow some
of the advice from our panelists, it would be of great help.
I would like to thank the audience also
for actively engaging with this discussion
and probably at morning.
So, thank you for coming here
and being part of this session,
and I hope this session
would be useful for all of you in future.
Let's secure our future as well.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
<v ->Thank you.</v>