<v ->So thank you very much, everyone,</v>
for coming just after lunch.
This is the first session of the space track,
presented by Novaspace,
premier space and satellite industry consulting firm.
It's our second year doing this, so thank you to the folks
at CES for liking us enough last year to invite us back.
So, the first session today, of four sessions,
so the first one is constellations and debris,
maintaining sustainable space practices,
and we have three excellent practitioners up here
that are going to talk
all about their sustainable space practices.
In the interest of time,
I won't even really do introductions.
I'll just ask a first question
of how do you define sustainable space practices,
and what is your company doing to help, you know,
make those practices more sustainable?
What are you doing to help, you know,
keep space sustainable?
And if you wanna give a short intro
of your name and company, also welcome.
<v ->Hi, thank you for having me.</v>
I'm Melissa Quinn.
I'm from Slingshot Aerospace.
We're a data and analytics company based out of Colorado,
but also offices over in the UK
and further afield later this year.
So, sustainability, look,
I just walked around some of the halls out there,
and I asked everyone from the agritech companies
to the healthcare companies to the autonomous vehicle,
and I said, you know, "Does space enable what you do?"
And pretty much every single one of 'em said, "Absolutely."
Their satellites or space enable what they do.
So this whole show, I would say, is powered by space.
Now what if, one day, something happened,
like similar to something like CrowdStrike but worse,
in space, a collision, for instance,
or an anti-satellite testing activity.
You know, a lot of what's downstairs and in the halls
across the city right now would cease to be able to function
and our daily lives, emergency services,
would cease to function, and that is really scary,
but yet so many people don't even realize
that that is a threat.
So for us at Slingshot, it's about maintaining safety
and security in space that then provides the sustainability
for future generations to use it, and for me,
it's something I'm personally very passionate about
because I love space, I love what it does for us
back down here on Earth, what enables us to do to provide,
you know, better lifestyles for people here on Earth,
and at any point, that could come to an end
if we're not careful about it, and, unfortunately,
humans don't have a great track record with, (chuckles)
you know, things like sustainable practices
in the seas, for instance.
So, for us at Slingshot, providing the capabilities
and technologies to keep space more sustainable
for everybody to benefit from in the future,
including all these wonderful companies
that are here at CES.
<v ->Yeah, thank you.</v>
How to follow on from that?
So, my name's Clare Martin.
I work for a company called Astroscale,
out of their US office.
You can just ignore the accent, that's fine.
it's a global company, and it was founded in 2013
with a very clear vision, and that is to develop space
in a safe and sustainable manner for the benefit
of future generations, and it's for exactly the reasons
that Melissa said.
Our global economy actually depends on it.
A lot of my career has been spent trying to educate
and make people more aware of actually how dependent we are
on space services in order to live our daily lives.
And as we move forward into this new era,
as space is used more and more and more,
the subject of sustainability
is becoming more and more important.
And at Astroscale, we are dedicated,
through what we call on-orbit servicing,
so essentially putting the logistics into orbit,
to aid that sustainable practice through on-orbit services
to be able to remove or replace or repair objects
as they come to the end of their life.
What would you answer?
<v ->Thanks, hard act to follow.</v>
It's not about space, it's about the economy.
It's not about tracking debris,
it's about developing applications.
It's not about generating data,
it's about creating opportunity.
And in space right now, we're facing a big threat.
And my mantra throughout my business career
has been, "In every threat, there is opportunity."
So there's about 8,000-plus operating satellites in space.
There's 130-plus million pieces of objects,
anywhere from the size of a piece of dust
up to the size of a city bus,
moving between eight and 16 kilometers a second,
uncontrollably through space, and we have no idea, really,
with a lot of accuracy, where they are.
So, that's a big threat.
So, there's an even bigger opportunity,
and I'm very conscious of the fact that we're here at CES,
it's consumer electronics,
and you don't wanna hear about probabilities of collision.
You wanna hear about where's the opportunity,
and the opportunity is in generating large amounts of data,
whether ground-based or space-based, or anywhere in between.
And then using AI and leveraging artificial intelligence
to generate either applications or solutions
or visualization techniques
so that we have a sustainable economy.
You don't want just sustainability in space,
you want sustainability everywhere.
So it's the idea of a circular economy
is what this is all about and how we participate in that.
For NorthStar's part, we participate
with space-based, space situational awareness.
We're the first company to commercialize that,
and hopefully not the last.
So, the idea is creating a community,
and the folks that are on stage with me here,
we've been working with all of them, in one form or another,
to generate a community.
And I think the most important thing I would like
out of this show is to open up the opportunity
beyond the space community to the general community
because we are, as my colleagues have very clearly stated,
we're all dependent on satellites.
And so it's a fundamental part of our interest.
And I think, for those of you that are interested
in artificial intelligence, using artificial intelligence
and using that to create a sustainable
or a lot of opportunity in space,
then this is the place to do it.
So thanks for the invitation, it's a pleasure to be here.
<v ->Sure thing, so we're gonna try to keep this</v>
a little bit more interactive,
so if any of the audience members
have some burning questions, start thinking about them now.
We'll come back to you in just a couple of minutes.
So, on the topic of opportunity and on the topic of,
you know, not just having data
but really creating opportunities
and, you know, about the economy,
this kind of commercialization
of sustainable space practices,
like how does that process really work
because you could imagine having some regulations
that say a satellite operator needs to, you know,
have their satellite BD orbited
or be sent to graveyard orbit or, you know,
you could regulate it, but is there, are you seeing,
on the kind of, on the more consumer push side,
are there companies or are there entities
that are proactively trying to be sustainable in space,
and is that creating a business for you?
Is that, how does the...
<v ->Yeah, sure, I'll take start of that.</v>
So, the short answer is yes.
So, I'll take a little bit of a step back
to the start of your question there.
In order to truly achieve a sustainable space,
and by that, I mean environmentally and economically,
and bring in much more of a circular economy in space,
there are really three challenges that need to be solved.
The policy and regulatory is one, the technology is another,
and the economics is the third
of actually how to make this business sustainable
in and of itself.
So, what we are seeing, and I think it's important
to keep seeing, are advances in all three areas, okay?
Policy cannot get ahead of the technology
'cause that will suppress the industry.
If technology gets too far ahead of the policy,
it gets frustrating for those of us that do design
and develop the technology.
And in terms of the economics, we are,
in all of our conversations with both government
and commercial operators, seeing an increasing awareness
of the challenge and an increasing interest
in wanting to lean forward, to step forward,
to do something in the various stages of their missions,
whether that's through design,
whether it's through engaging the services of like Slingshot
and NorthStar to understand the environment
in which they're operating
and help them plan their operations.
So it's all ends of this mission lifecycle
that we're starting to see some changes.
<v ->Yeah, I think, to add, from a commercial perspective,</v>
is opportunity around more efficient operations.
So, working with commercial providers,
operators of spacecraft, to ensure that their missions
are as efficient as possible.
It costs money to move (chuckles) their spacecraft
to avoid collisions.
So, one of our platforms that we have, one of our products,
has commercial operators using it to just communicate
to one another, which sounds, you know, a bit silly,
but that's the real thing.
Are you moving, or should we move,
and what is the cost of that,
and what's the most efficient way to do this?
So, you know, providing those efficiencies in space
to some of these operators is so important.
And I think, going back to what Clare was just saying,
I struggle with the regulation piece.
I sit on a lot of regulatory boards
who are talking about this endlessly,
and they are talking about it,
and they are talking about it, and it's been talked about,
and even King Charles, you know, back home in the UK,
has started something called the Astra Carta,
which is about, you know, more sustainable practices
in space, but what tends to be missing
from these conversations is those owner operators.
And I think bringing in them into that conversation
is gonna be really important because we can sit here
and talk about regulation until the cows come home,
but if the operator's not in the room,
signing up for these things,
which they probably won't, so, (chuckles)
thinking about how we have more creative solutions
around regulations and legislation
is gonna be really important for us going forward,
and it might be more of a carrot versus a stick.
We are talking about not just nation states here
that are launching these spacecraft
and operating these spacecraft,
we're talking about individuals and private companies,
and that's a lot trickier to regulate,
so bringing them in on the conversation,
as well as supporting their operations, to be more efficient
and more sustainable and safe as well
is something that we're really proud of at Slingshot.
<v ->So, space is already commercialized.</v>
I mean, Starlink, the number of satellites
that are operating in space are more commercial
than government-owned, and the challenges,
Clare pointed it out, the three legs of the stool,
business, technology, and a legal framework,
or a regulatory framework, all part of a framework
in any industry, in any industry at all,
the entertainment industry, the meat packing industry.
If you don't have business technology and legal aspects,
you don't know what your reference points are.
And there's, as Melissa was pointing out,
there's a bit of an atrophy on the legal side to catch up,
and there needs to be a cooperation between those three.
And it's a great opportunity for commercial enterprise
to work within this framework because commercial enterprise
is the only thing that can move as fast
as the industry is moving.
The satellites are moving quickly in space,
between eight and 16 kilometers a second,
and the changing environment in space is changing rapidly,
and governments don't keep up with that, period.
Only commercial enterprise can keep up with that,
which, back to my opening statement,
creates a great opportunity for entrepreneurs, innovators,
artificial intelligence, machine learning
to combine with algorithm software and large amounts of data
to create a whole lot of applications
that create economic benefit.
And that economic benefit is the promise of space.
<v ->We'll pause for audience questions or comments,</v>
if anybody wants to take a stab at it.
Going once, going twice, all right-
<v Audience Member>I have a question.</v>
<v ->Okay, please.</v>
You can either talk loudly or...
<v Audience Member>Thank you.</v>
<v Blaine>Sure.</v>
<v Audience Member>I was wondering</v>
how we could potentially set up a, let's say,
board or consortium, whatever phrase you wanna use,
where private industry can debate and deliberate
against each other for ways
that regulation could potentially be passed,
as I believe in having multiple companies
that would debate each other,
acting as sort of a weighing balance upon each other,
where, obviously, they wouldn't want the other person going
and blowing up their satellite, causing problems
for everyone else, while also suggesting ways
that it could be done economically for, sorry,
ways that satellites could be managed economically,
so that way we don't have people
having to burn all of their fuel
in order to comply with some government regulation
that's written somewhere,
as I believe it would maximize all the possible faucets
of satellite management in orbit.
<v ->Yep, so I'll, there are a couple of different types</v>
of consortium that exist within the US
that are specifically looking
at the on-orbit servicing aspects of the logistics in space.
One of those is COSMIC, and that actually brings industry
and the government and academia into the room
to do exactly what you're talking about, right,
to debate the points,
bring the different perspectives forward,
look at everything from education
and the workforce coming in
through to how we do test and demonstration platforms
on orbit, and the policy and regulation aspects.
Internationally, there's one called CONFERS,
and I always forget the acronym, so I'm not going to try.
they can jump in, but that does a very similar thing.
It was started by DARPA,
and it's since gone independently on its own,
and CONFERS also tries to bring the different voices
to the table.
The difference with CONFERS
is it actually has created a couple of draft standards,
and then they get passed off to another organization,
so, there are many different little forum.
I think probably what we're missing
is a bit of an overarching ownership
of who owns the problem to try to solve it.
It is, I believe, clearer in the UK, under that framework,
than it is in the US.
In the US, because of the length and duration
of the space industry today,
there are many different organizations that are responsible
for different elements of the industry.
And that is causing some more challenges on the US side.
<v ->There are, to complement that,</v>
I think you've already answered the question,
so, to complement that, there are many organizations
that are finding their way,
because this is all very new and moving very quickly,
including the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs,
including COPUS, which is a committee
with inside the United Nations, including the ITU,
International Telecommunications Union,
and including SpaceOps, which has a major working group
that does, again, in parallel with other things,
exactly what you talk about.
The big challenge that we're facing,
and so we don't have all the answers,
we just know what the problems are right now
and working through them,
is who is going to curate the data,
'cause it's gonna be a global system.
Who would curate that data and say it's been validated
and verified?
And so, earlier, well, I'm sorry, late last year,
in New York at the United Nations,
there was a meeting I attended,
and the big question was who would be in charge of all that?
My vote would be that it's something like the United Nations
that would want to be a neutral body.
Whether or not they can fill that role is another question.
So the part that I wanna bring clear to you
is where's the challenges?
It's in validating and verifying the data source,
and that gets even more complicated
when you add in artificial intelligence
because then, who's actually responsible for the information
that's being delivered when you've added AI
into the process, but you need to do all that.
And so if you're starting to think,
like I'm painting a picture,
it brings you back to we better get moving quickly
on the points that Melissa and Clare brought up
about we better get moving on legal and regulatory framework
so that we can move as quickly on the technology part,
so it doesn't get too far left behind.
So you've tapped into this circular exercise
that we're trying to bring together as a community,
and it's very challenging
because it needs to be done very quickly.
It's not something we can wait for
because what we wanna do is facilitate more use of space
and more effective use of space.
And one of the biggest things that's preventing that
is our ability to close that loop.
<v ->Anything to add?</v>
<v ->Yeah, I was just gonna say it's,</v>
that closing of the value chain of the data
is really challenging because, you know,
this time almost last year,
there was a lot of conversation around interoperability
and bringing these communities together,
between legal and academia and industry and government.
And then, suddenly, I would say in the last few months,
the shift globally has been,
we want our own sovereign capability.
We want to be able to see, use our own sovereign data
from our own sovereign hardware to see what we need to see
at the exact time we need to see it.
So, I've noticed quite a shift internationally,
almost away from where I hope we were heading,
which was almost an interoperability and that data sharing
and almost a single truth of, a source of truth for space,
you know, where are spacecraft, who's doing what?
And you're starting to now see this shift,
and that is concerning if we're not careful,
where we all stand up our own, you know,
separate types of data sources.
So it is a challenge, it's a massive challenge.
And I go to these great round tables and workshops
with the United Nations, and we had one recently,
it was like, write all the challenges there are,
and there's like hundreds of them, and then it's like,
okay, where are all the solutions?
And there was like five notes up on the wall.
It is really tricky,
but you have some really powerful minds on it.
And I think the best thing about what we're doing
is that we all need it to work.
So there's a motivation there for all countries
to keep space sustainable because if we mess it up,
nobody can use it.
So there is that motivation there, but yeah, I think,
you know, you're onto a good thing.
There's just some more challenges stuck in there.
<v ->Yeah, well, we're all set up here.</v>
We got a full house of mics.
Any-
<v Stewart>I was hiding the other mic, (indistinct).</v>
<v ->Thank you very much.</v>
Any other questions from the audience for now?
Otherwise, we can come back in a few minutes.
Okay.
So challenges, you've talked about the challenges
on the more kind of like regulatory side
and the more just trying to get everyone's ducks in a row
and that kind of thing.
What about on the technology side challenges,
what are some of the, if you could snap your fingers
and have one big tech challenge disappear tomorrow,
what would that challenge be, or just maybe more broadly,
what are some of the, you know, the big tech challenges
that you're facing in trying to do what you're doing?
<v ->I think a lot of the technology challenges have been</v>
or are being addressed right now
from a on-orbit servicing perspective, from what, you know,
we're doing there and what we're doing with SSA,
but we need to make it more accessible.
That's a tech challenge, and that's what's, again,
interesting about having a opportunity to speak at this show
in that we want artificial intelligence,
we want machine learning,
we wanna leverage a more general approach
so that this becomes much more normalized,
from a technical perspective, not a science project.
The biggest challenge technically
is to get it out of the lab and get it into production.
And I think, if I could snap my fingers and have that,
for me, that would be a very good position
for us all to be in, so we really want to turn the corner
on adopting general practices and getting more participation
from non-space entities into a community
that makes it more robust, and in that sense,
more sustainable.
<v ->Okay.</v>
From Astroscale's perspective,
our focus is in on-orbit assets,
so we actually build satellites
that become on-orbit service vehicles.
The technology to start this process is there.
We have launched two missions into orbit.
We can do the rendezvous and the proximity operations.
We can dock with another object.
There are elements that I would love to see in the future.
So I would love to bring in more autonomy
into the way that we do our rendezvous
and proximity operations.
And it's actually driven exactly to what you were saying,
it's the accessibility of it, it's the safety,
it's the repeatability, and the assurance to the customer
that when they ask for a service, the service will be there.
Space, traditionally, is a very conservative industry.
It is one that likes to always be second.
So, someone else has done it first,
and then they'll move down the chain afterwards.
If I could snap my fingers and change one thing
about the technology challenge, it will be to not be second.
<v ->Yeah, and I think, just building on that,</v>
the technology is, the challenge is getting the investment,
really, is getting it out of R&amp;D and into productization
and out to the customer, so, you know,
I think awareness that Stewart was talking about
with outside of the space community is so important.
Understanding the need for these technologies to exist
to protect all these other amazing ones is something else.
I think, from a Slingshot perspective,
we have 180 optical sensors around the world.
We are pulling in, just as of last week now,
two billion observations a day.
We see all the way from low Earth orbit
all the way out to cislunar, day and night,
that has a ton of data.
So, for us, the challenge of, you know, fusing that data
with other sources like, you know, like NorthStar's,
for instance, who are on-orbit, to radar data,
fusing, you know, that's incredible amount of data.
So I think for us, the technology challenge
is, obviously, pulling the right insights out of that data,
which we are doing now is with our new AI product,
but also, you know, I think,
from a sustainability perspective,
it's the storage of that data.
It's, you know, how that, always see that balance
between getting something that's more sustainable
but causing another problem down the line as well.
So I think, looking at the whole value chain
of sustainability and the technologies that we're creating
with AI, but also that has a cost to that.
So I think there's a great challenge there, again, for space
is how we take that data, maybe do more of it in orbit
rather than down here on Earth
and add to some of the problems we already have.
<v ->Two billion observations per day.</v>
Two billion, man, and how does that whole process work?
I mean, you're collecting all this data,
and it's gotta get stored somewhere, and it's gotta be,
it's being sent through, I guess,
all these various cloud servers, but I mean, is that,
do you have any secret sauce or any info
on how you guys collect two billion data points per day?
<v ->Yeah, so we have our own patented sensors.</v>
We have our own TCPED, so that obviously takes the data
and puts it into more of usable, then we fuse all that.
We have multiple software products that we do,
depending on the customer's needs at the end,
but the product I just talked about, RAI, machine learning,
it's called Agatha, we just did with DARPA actually.
And that is taking a lot of this data from constellations
and looking at very minute differences
for nefarious activities hidden among constellations.
So, one of the things that we're doing
is taking those tens of thousands, millions of pieces
of data and identifying where the nefarious activity
is happening, which the human eye will just never be able
to pick up.
So one spacecraft hidden amongst a constellation
that might just slightly be turned a different way,
for instance.
So AI, 100%, is the way that we need to move forward.
We have all the data that we need at the moment,
but now it's just making that usable for the customer.
<v ->So if I can summarize, I mean,</v>
it sounds like it's a little bit more
of a software/user interface kind of,
it's not a hardware problem per se as much.
It's more of a getting the data, analyzing it,
making it usable for the customers, et cetera.
Is that a fair characterization that...
<v ->I think, to be simple with it,</v>
it's improving the user experience.
So what you wanna do is make it easier for the user
to understand what's happening.
Even if you have a background in engineering or astrophysics
or orbital dynamics, you still want to be able to look at it
and go, "Okay, I get what's happening."
And that can be very much facilitated by non-space,
traditionally non-space technologies, AI, machine learning,
other types of graphic developments
that are already out there,
so that's where you have to go with it next.
<v ->Yeah, that user interface is so important.</v>
The visualization of the data,
it all comes down to it, doesn't it?
<v ->Oh, I can't imagine, 'cause otherwise,</v>
you just have all these, you know, little specs in space
that are moving at some velocity
and that are moving in some direction,
and it doesn't immediately become apparent
what you're trying to say, unless you have it visualized.
<v ->Yeah, check out our website.</v>
You can see an example of how we do it, anyways.
<v ->Yeah, 'cause it's not a 2D problem.</v>
The ocean is a good example as an analogy to space.
It's a 3D problem, there's depth.
So what you wanna do is figure out,
in a three-dimensional way, where everything is,
and if things start to collide with each other,
they change each other's trajectory
like balls on a pool table.
So you're really wanting to know what you can expect
and what's that gonna look like, 96 hours, 192 hours,
You wanna know what is the possible,
how does that affect my day in a month from now,
'cause if I'm planning a space mission,
or if I'm planning to launch a new capability in space,
I wanna know if I'm launching myself into a debris mess,
or a debris mess that hasn't been developed yet,
and how do we avoid that?
So that's really what it comes down to.
It's predictability and prediction of situations
so that we can accommodate.
<v ->Very good, any audience questions?</v>
We're down to about 10 minutes.
Going once, twice, yes, I see a hand in the back.
You can either yell from there, or...
<v Audience Member>I'll just try to yell.</v>
<v ->We hear ya.</v>
<v Audience Member>Two questions</v>
that I think are kind of related.
One is just this broad question that, in general,
it seems like (indistinct).
It seems like oftentimes, there's,
like, in the current day and age,
kind of to the points that were discussed,
it's kind of overlooked or perhaps underappreciated,
the important role that space plays
in all these different other realms of the economy,
kind of very much so underpinning a lot of it,
but what I'm wondering is, if you think,
perhaps, to the conversation (indistinct)
the regulatory piece, in many ways, kind of lagging behind,
there needs to be maybe some like, unfortunate event
that happens that will then create
this kind of reactionary posture
to then be more of a catalyst for policymaking
that actually addresses some of the issues,
or if perhaps there could be some other kind of like,
inspiring cultural moment,
almost similar to how like the Apollo moon landing
captured the imagination of so many people
around the country, policymakers included,
that could hopefully kind of take the place
of whatever that potential kind of negative reactionary.
<v ->You've just, this is my passion.</v>
So space has a PR problem, I would say.
Space, we go to, you know, we see each other on the circuit,
we're all at the same space conferences.
That's why it's brilliant to be at a non-space conference.
And we're so good at telling each other how amazing we are
and how space is like gonna save everybody,
and isn't that awesome?
And we're absolutely shockingly bad at communicating that
to a wider audience, like really bad.
We need better storytellers for space, 100%.
We need people to connect.
I think most people just have such a disconnect
from what we look at every night
and how it enables our everyday lives.
I spent 10 years doing launch, and that's an easy thing.
Launch is quite easy to, people can see it, they get excited
by it, they can feel it, they can smell it,
but with a lot of the technologies that we're doing,
people can't, they don't get it.
So, yeah, I agree, and I'm trying to, you know, been trying
to do a much better job of getting out into wider audiences.
I think the main thing
is space thinks it's its own industry.
We're not, we cross every other industry,
and I think, coming to conferences like this,
speaking outside of our normal kind of space,
I go and speak at sustainability conferences,
I go and put myself in front of Extinction Rebellion,
I go and try and get the message out into different areas
because that awareness piece is so critical,
because like CrowdStrike, if something were to happen
to space, and I unfortunately do think
it will take something to happen to wake everybody up to it.
I hope it doesn't, but it probably, knowing, again, humans,
it might, and so, you know, you're speaking,
you know, my language on this,
so we definitely need some better communicators
and storytellers, and we need to bring more artists,
I would say, into space to help.
You know, when William Shatner came back down
off of Blue Origin, you know, say what you will about him,
but he communicated the power of space,
like I've never met a space industry person be,
or an astronaut do it in a way that he was able to just say
like, communicate as an actor, as an artist,
and I think we need more of that.
<v ->Can I just say ditto?</v>
Your premise is not wrong,
from the way you phrased it just then.
It's very important to raise awareness
and educate more broadly.
I think one of the challenges we've had is space,
we do consider ourselves a little bit of our own industry.
We are very insular.
It is very important for us to come out of our comfort zone
and come to shows like CES, which is, by far,
the largest show I have ever been to,
and talk and share what it is that we do
and what some of the challenges are that we have.
At the moment, space is a piece of many other industries.
And so, therefore,
I think that's where you've got a little bit of a dichotomy.
We see ourselves as an industry, but actually,
we are part of everybody else's solutions,
and we need to, as you say, tell that story better
and be bold about it, be very, you know, very confident
in what it is that space can do for people.
As to whether it will take a catastrophic event,
I first started studying the challenge of space debris
when I completed my doctorate,
so, I'm not gonna tell you how many years
'cause it's just depressing, but, at the time,
we too were talking then.
It's like, "Well, if we had an on-orbit collision,
would that help us create the policy
and regulatory environment we need
in order to help create a sustainable environment?"
We have had events on-orbit.
They have occurred.
Satellites have been destroyed.
They have not, as yet, been of a magnitude
to cause more than a slight ripple within the industry
or company that was directly affected, unfortunately.
<v ->Fear is a good motivator.</v>
So you've touched on the fear factor.
If it happens, it may be too late.
So do you want to be an evangelist
telling people, "The end is nigh,"
or do you wanna say, "What's past is prologue,"
as Shakespeare might say, or do you wanna say,
from Marcus Aurelius, "What we do in this life echoes
in eternity," and where does it echo more than in space
because a piece of debris in space is gonna stay in space
for maybe decades, if not longer, because it won't deorbit.
And so, you can get very depressed very quickly,
thinking about how bad it is.
You can get very motivated by remembering,
if you're a responsible individual, how much,
as you pointed out, we rely on space every day.
There is no backward compatibility for space.
There is no GPS backup in ground-based systems.
So you'll lose Uber Eats, you'll lose your ride,
you'll lose the ability to meet with your friends
and track your girlfriend on the internet because it's gone.
And then there's no more telecommunications,
there's no more interconnectivity, there's nothing.
You're going back to the Dark Ages,
and we're not gonna hook up the WAN network
and the LAN network and say we can replace it all with that
because we haven't kept it up for the last 25 years.
So, as we say in Scotland, you're screwed.
And so, that's the problem.
So, redefining and reiterating the problem
over and over again is not gonna solve the problem.
We all talk about will it take one event?
Well, we had an event, you know, Iridium collided
with a Russian Cosmos satellite, so what?
We've had ASAT tests where satellites
have been deliberately shot out of space
and created thousands of pieces of debris, so what?
So, it's not the motivator.
The motivator is the opportunity.
The motivator is the fact that you can make a lot of money
generating products, generating capability
that will help keep space clean and keep space safe
and create more opportunity.
So, the commercial component of this
is the most important component.
Space used to be a government-run club for decades,
and who cared?
Only the people in the club.
Getting this many people, which isn't a ton,
out to a conference about space back in the day would,
other than the folks in the community,
would've been impossible.
Nobody cares.
The fact that people are, that we're at this conference
and people are listening to this talk
means that we're making progress.
The only way to get over this wave
is to get a bigger surfboard
and start riding the wave of capability and technology
and innovation, and bring the answer to the table
before the event
because nobody wants to be disciplined here,
and we don't wanna point at somebody and say, "I told ya,"
'cause by then, it's too late.
So let's just put that in the back of our mind
and be motivated by the fact
that there's a big economic opportunity in space.
Focus on the promise of space,
focus on how much new innovation, artificial intelligence,
machine learning, combination with billions of pieces
of data points or trillions of pieces of data points
every day can transform your wallet,
'cause that's what people care about.
They care about what they can do with this economically.
It's an economic problem, so solve it.
I have no problem living in a tent in the Everglades.
I really don't, I don't give a crap.
I can go back and make my tomatoes grow in my garden,
but everybody who relies on space,
be aware that there's an opportunity here.
So I think we must get around this corner by saying,
"Get a bigger surfboard, ride the wave,
make something important, and make it happen."
Get out in front of the problem.
Use this wave of disaster
as something that you can put your surfboard on and ride.
So that's really the way to get out of this mess.
<v ->Well, they say there's a first time for everything,</v>
and I've moderated quite a few panels,
but Marcus Aurelius, I had never heard him quoted
on a panel before, so that was pretty good, I'll take that.
Just a couple minutes left.
Last question from me.
So, it's the CES, they like to say
it's the most powerful tech event in the world,
and they're probably right.
What's the one technology that is most exciting to you
that you see here at this event this week,
or last year if you came to the event last year?
What's the general technology that's most exciting for you?
<v ->I've said it a hundred times, artificial intelligence.</v>
It was created by Virginia Apgar in the 1950s,
and you're all the beneficiaries of it.
Some of you are walking this planet because of it.
It was the Apgar test that was done
when a child was brought into this world,
and there was five tests that they did on the child
to see what the child's health was,
whether it was reflexes, color, temperature,
heart rate, et cetera.
And they took those five pieces of data,
and the guy walks in with his pipe and says,
"Mm, score looks good."
Two weeks later, the child's dead.
So Virginia Apgar decided to take all of the data
from all around the world and from all of her colleagues,
put it into a program and generate
the first artificial intelligence decision-maker that said,
"This child's in difficulty,"
and you all have had an Apgar test, artificial intelligence.
So that's the wave of artificial intelligence.
Artificial intelligence used for that type of purpose
is immensely powerful and infinitely capable,
and that's what we need to get out in front of the problem.
<v ->I was just watching another panel downstairs,</v>
and it was some of the top kind of tech media
and journalists, and they asked them the same question,
and one of them said, you know, "What I'm seeing this year
is really kind of this movement for tech for good,
so using technology for healthcare, emergency services
and highlighted some amazing things
that I just couldn't believe existed."
And then, she went on to mention satellite applications,
enabling them, and one of the ones she was talking about
was for emergency services for,
there's a firetruck down there that's using it really
in an amazing way, but also wildfire,
it's my family's background, in being Canadian,
but wildfire and the, you know, obviously,
the outcome of our climate at the moment
and managing the impact of that
until we come up with the riding of the wave,
solution and opportunity, we're gonna need to manage that.
So using space to help enable technology on the ground
for emergency services, you know,
some of the stuff downstairs is absolutely incredible,
and it does give me a lot of hope for us here on Earth.
<v ->Very cool.</v>
Clare, any last remarks?
<v ->I would echo that in some way.</v>
So, one of my main motivators for joining Astroscale
as a company was that it wasn't a technology company.
It's a technology, it does great tech,
but it's also determined to work to help solve policy
and regulatory and to make the economics case work.
So, taking all of the great ideas in technology,
whether it's artificial intelligence
or the actual processing capability that we need in orbit
to be able to use said intelligence,
and bringing those together
to actually solve the space sustainability challenge,
from our perspective and many other environmental challenges
as you just referred to,
that to me is the most exciting thing,
to make technology a part of the solution.
<v ->Very good.</v>
Well, with that, we have reached time,
so if we could have a round of applause
for our outstanding panelists,
and thank you all for your kind attention.