<v ->Good afternoon, everyone.</v>
Welcome to the future.
This is the much anticipated, drum roll, right?
Investment panel on AI investments
and what is actually happening,
what we actually wanna invest in.
And we have an incredible panelists,
a group of panelists, that we're going to invite up.
And I think what's really important to recognize
in this coming panel is that
there are so many different angles
that we're approaching this technology and its use.
Well, I wanna first invite Warren Packard up.
He is part of the AI Fund.
Please welcome him.
We also have Tony Kim with BlackRock.
We should have music in our intros, right?
It makes it a lot more exciting.
We have Tien Wong with Opus8.
We have Alex Yeh with GMI.
Moyi Dang with Coinfeeds.
And myself, please join us.
So I'd like to go around the panel
and just have a quick intro
so that everybody here understands
what exactly is the interest of the panelists in this group
and what they prefer and look for.
Warren, could you start this off, please?
<v ->Sure, so I'm a partner at AI Fund.</v>
This is Andrew Ng's venture studio.
Probably many of you are familiar with Andrew
who's been teaching AI and ML for decades,
was the founder of Coursera
and now has taught about 8 million computer scientists
their trade in AI.
As a venture studio, we co-found companies,
so our focus is on bringing in ideas and concepts
and typically we work with corporations
and other venture funds and entrepreneurs
to bring as a co-founder their ideas to life.
So we've got resources as business founders,
technology prototypers, recruiters,
and of course we have investment dollars as well.
So we don't invest in going concerns,
we work with you to create your company
and write the business plan and precede finance the company.
But yeah, we're at the earliest stages.
<v ->Awesome, thank you.</v>
<v ->I'm Tony Kim.</v>
I head up the technology investment sector at BlackRock.
We're at the complete opposite end of the spectrum
to Warren.
So when companies get late stage before the IPO,
all the way to the IPO, and then after the IPO,
and then the big companies we know in the public market,
that whole spectrum is where I get involved.
After he builds the companies,
then we vet them and say,
are you worthy of investment?
And that's kind of what I do.
<v Denise>Thank you, Tony.</v>
<v ->Great, Tien Wong.</v>
And as an investor, I'm wearing two hats.
One is as a direct investor in mostly post-seed,
pre-A and A round companies.
And I'm also a venture partner at Iron Gate Capital,
which is a dual-use venture capital fund,
which invest in a fund-to-fund basis.
So half of our assets are deployed into fund managers
and half are direct investments.
And then my third hat that I wear is I assist fund managers
and companies in raising capital,
finding LPs and equity money for early-stage companies.
<v Denise>Awesome.</v>
Go ahead, Alex.
<v ->My name's Alex,</v>
founder and CEO of GMI Cloud.
GMI is a AI cloud company.
So we enable and allow founders and enterprise
to build AI instantly.
So whether you have an idea
and you wanna build a RAG or build a solution,
we're here to help.
Or enterprise, you want to enable your employees
and you need to scale inferencing
or you need to train internally,
we're here to help to provide on-prem services
or solutions for you.
And so I guess,
I'm on the opposite end of the investors here.
You guys invest in money to the startups,
and in turn startups gave their precious investment dollars
to me,
for me to enable them to build a really amazing product.
<v ->Love that.</v>
Go ahead, Moyi.
<v ->Hi, so my name is Moyi.</v>
I'm the founder of Coinfeeds AI.
So we provide AI solutions to investment funds.
So we help in investment funds, big and small,
to build internal AI solutions,
we connect with their own data,
and we deploy securely to a virtual private cloud,
we help manage permissions, et cetera.
Now, the company was started in 2021
where we applied AI to crypto.
We were one of the first companies to do that
and we sold social media analytics to investment funds.
But in recent years,
we focus more on providing AI solutions to investment funds.
<v ->I love that.</v>
So we obviously have so many different perspectives here
and different angles when it comes to investing.
I would love to start with you, Tony,
given your background.
And would love to ask more about
what key factors do you consider
when assessing the market potential of companies
integrating AI technologies,
whether in verticals like fintech, health,
or broader applications.
I think your perspective could be very valuable in there.
<v ->So AI is a horizontal technology,</v>
and yet we're an investor, right?
So we're investing.
And so it doesn't, per se, matter.
There are principles,
foundational principles for investment.
I mean, it probably extends from the early stage
all the way to the public market.
And so there are certain, these principles of,
is the market big enough?
What is the competitive dynamic in the company?
What is the business model,
the financial profile of the company?
Is there differentiation?
Is there competitive edge?
Is there uniqueness?
What's your moat?
You know, all of these,
let's just call it business principles.
And then you apply that prism to AI.
And so it's no different to the prior cycles
we've had of social media or e-commerce or SaaS,
or fintech or crypto.
It kind of doesn't matter.
Now that said,
so you take that framework,
it's a universal framework of what I call,
and I believe fervently,
and what I believe in power laws.
Every sector,
every company, category
follows power laws of winners and losers.
And generally there are very few winners and lots of losers
or mediocre companies.
And so through that lens,
I invest across whatever category.
And so then AI is a horizontal technology
and it touches many, many things,
many, many industries,
and then up and down what I call a stack technology.
And then you apply these power law principles
to every layer of the stack in AI.
And that applies to then every industry vertical
that AI will touch.
So you follow those principles
and then that gives you a lens
of how we approach investing in companies in AI.
<v ->That makes sense.</v>
I think data is a big part of this, right?
When you're going through the due diligence piece.
And with that said, Moyi,
you know, with Coinfeeds and the data part of you,
I would love to know more about how can AI-powered analytics
uncover hidden trends and patterns
in financial and market data
to identify promising investment opportunities,
from your perspective?
<v ->Yeah, so one way to think of this is</v>
that AI lets us scalably do something
that would take a human a very long time to do.
So, for example,
within our AI platforms,
we have a tool that allows investors
to ask the same question to a lot of different documents,
such as earnings calls, for example.
So you can imagine asking something like,
what is this company's outlook on inflation
or how does the next administration affect this company?
And for the AI to summarize that
across hundreds and thousands of companies
and look for trends across different sectors.
<v ->And is this something that you have seen</v>
offers a lot of value
and can summarize it pretty accurately?
<v ->Yes, absolutely.</v>
So you can ask the AI to condense its findings into say,
something numerical so that then you can aggregate
across industries for example.
We're actually going to release
a case study on this very soon.
<v ->Love that.</v>
So, Warren, since you take a different approach
to investing,
I'd like to hear more about, you know, just,
I mean you have over 30 exits, that's pretty impressive.
Don't mean to, you know, make a big deal outta that,
but it is a big deal personally.
I would love to hear at what stage
are you investing in right now from your perspective?
And I think this question also goes to Tien who's, you know,
an investor as well separately.
At what stage are you investing right now
and what are you looking for in the investment opportunities
that you ultimately close?
<v ->So echoing Tony's point,</v>
AI is a vertical technology.
So AI in and of itself is gonna be pervasive.
It's the new electricity.
And so we're looking for applications
that are fitting a real need
in each of these different verticals.
Again, what Tony was talking about.
So we very deliberately look for subject matter experts
in all of these different sectors,
whether that's an expert in a specific domain in healthcare
or in sales, automation,
or marketing automation or whatever.
I mean, every single vertical out there,
and there's an abundance of opportunities.
And we look at ourselves and say we do only two things well.
Number one, we start companies,
and number two, we understand the AI technology landscape
and we have an opinion or a point of view
on where it's going.
So if you combine our expertise, if you will,
in the horizontal layer
with the vertical market expertise of the corporations
or venture capital funds or entrepreneurs with whom we work,
that's a really great recipe for creating
typically B2B SaaS applications.
And now SaaS is service as software
where you can really implement services
that can execute all the way end to end.
And kind of expanding on Moyi's point there,
just as an example,
with the GenTech technology coming about
and becoming much more pervasive,
what you can do with agents
when you're trying to analyze marketplaces,
competition, landscapes, et cetera,
you can have each of these agents
debate with amongst themselves
and come up with a much more optimal answer
than you could have six months ago let's say.
If you just, for instance,
were just training on a single data set
and having a single LLM generate a summary.
Now you can have all these different perspectives
from all these different agents.
So it could be that somebody comes to us
with an expertise in a certain area,
we apply the latest in agentic technology
or multimodal or local LLMs or whatever.
And we're able to prototype that extremely quickly,
hire the CEO, board member,
the first five employees, finance the company,
and get the company up and running extremely rapidly
'cause speed and time into market is absolutely crucial.
And hopefully we build something that has staying power,
and Tony looks at it and says,
yeah, this is something I want to get into.
<v ->That's why I sat you guys together, just saying.</v>
I'm kidding.
Tien, I would love to hear your feedback on that as well.
<v ->Yeah, I mean it's just like Tony had mentioned,</v>
this is a horizontal technology,
it's an enabling technology.
I think the most recent example
might be to follow what happened with cloud computing
and application migration.
And as far as our investment, you know,
we're not investing in pure play horizontal technologies
and AI,
we're investing in companies that are, like Warren said,
in specific verticals with specific management teams
that have core expertise that can move very quickly
and have the agility
to sort of deal with the competitive dynamics
in the marketplace.
I think to your first question,
I did want to bring up two points in looking at factors
and they are regulatory and ethical,
which we don't really hear too much about,
but as an investor, you know, you wanna look at risk factors
that can take down your whole company.
And companies can be taken down by regulatory
and ethical missteps for a variety of different reasons.
So very, very hard diligence.
I don't know if there's an AI tool
that you can develop that might be able to diligence that,
but certainly those are two very big sort of clouds.
And as a dual-use investor works,
very, very sensitive to regulatory risk
and ethical considerations in the deployment of AI.
<v ->I just wanna elaborate on some of the comments</v>
just made here.
So both generally venture-early investors,
I'm later private and public investor,
and focusing on vertical AI for industries, two things,
these big horizontal layers at the bottom of the stack,
the infrastructure, the silicon, the cloud,
even the model,
this is tens to hundreds of billions of dollars
to play the game.
So this, in many ways,
there are few very big,
very few companies and each one of these
that can play that game.
Warren is at the very top,
and you could see,
they're picking off at the application layer
and, I think, in a very prescient comment about services.
So in the last era it was all about SaaS,
which is the application layer,
which is software running on CPU and a small database.
And now, you have AI that will basically take,
and agents will take over SaaS, I think.
And not only that, it will start eating into
the human service layer.
So now you're gonna have new kinds of companies
that are vertically specifically focused.
And they're not necessarily competing
at this foundational horizontal layer.
They're competing here
and they're picking off very specific applications
like call centers or, you know,
medical services or whatever.
And there's gonna be lots of new companies
being built at that layer,
and they're gonna eat into labor,
and they're gonna eat into software
and it's gonna be software and services
combined into some kind of new kind of thing.
And then you're gonna have,
hopefully you're gonna have lots of new companies
that are attacking the incumbent verticals
at that layer of the stack.
And so that's where the,
I think the venture community are gonna create
lots of new companies at that layer of the stack.
At the bottom of the stack, you know,
it's the giants that need a hundred billion dollars or more
to play that game.
And so you're not gonna have,
it's gonna be very, very difficult to have new companies
interject themselves at that layer of the stack.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
So I think that's a perfect time to have Alex jump in
with his expertise.
Alex, you know, regarding risk mitigation
when it comes to AI ventures,
what unique risks do you encounter
when investing or dealing with companies,
with the AI-driven startups and infrastructure projects
and how do you mitigate those risks
to ensure sustainability and returns?
<v ->What Tony said it was exactly right,</v>
to play in the infrastructure game, in the LLM game,
you need a hundred million to start,
that's the minimum ticket size that you need.
And I think the stages are already set.
People who are on the poker table, it's already set.
And I think in the next few years
there will be a washout wave in M&amp;A
across the infrastructure space, right?
And then across that, right,
there will be a lot of different called software stack
sitting on top of infrastructure.
'Cause we're kind of the natural,
I would say vertical solution company, right?
So we buy a lot of NVIDIA's silicon GPUs,
and we also have to build a lot of software solutions
on top, right?
Memory optimization that allows LM to train faster,
token cost to be lower on the inferencing side,
providing different kinds of LMs,
all the latest open-source LLMs like DeepSeek V3 whatnot,
like we have to integrate that onto our platform, right?
That allows, you know,
our customers to use it more efficiently.
So that's why I see that,
there are some like inference-specific companies
that I think will consolidate,
and it'll be a natural buyer from the,
I would say the hyperscalers,
because they have a lot of, I would say customer group.
In terms of risk, I think there will be two things.
I would like to break that down into,
one is enterprise and startup, right?
So on the enterprise side, number one thing,
number one risk I would say is security
and security and security.
Nothing else matter, right?
Cost, I think is a relative term.
You can choose a neo cloud that will,
I think will be able to significantly lower that cost,
compute costs relative to hyperscalers.
Security is because for manufacturing or for chip design
or data-sensitive companies,
most of our data are on-prem still, right?
And it's really,
they're sitting on, I would say a gold mine.
And AI is just, you know, a fancy word,
but it's just data, right?
Extracting valuable information from that.
And so,
the cool thing about this wave, I mean,
to make this data insightful
is you have to break down all the walls, right?
Think about a large enterprise.
A large enterprise, you have different data silo, right?
HR have their own tool, solutions, right, data silo.
Sales have their own figures.
Finance obviously have theirs, right?
So, it's probably stored different, elsewhere.
One maybe in Oracle, one in AWS, one in GCP, right?
But in order to extract insights,
you have to break down all the walls, right?
So I think that becomes an issue.
And here it comes to the next point
I wanna make on the enterprise side,
which is IAM, user access management, right?
So for example, if a sales person next to you
ask the LM and say, hey, who's the sales figure?
What's this bonus from last quarter
asking for another sales, right?
You can't have that, right?
So there will be I would say vertical cut, right,
and horizontal cuts based on kind of the levels.
And each company is built different.
All the data is different.
So I think that's an issue for a large enterprise
when they want to deploy AI.
Because agentic AI is one of the easiest,
I would say no-brainer,
for any enterprise to adopt like right now, right?
It just increased productivity for all their employees.
Instead of asking for HR
and they'll get back to you in a day, right,
you can ask the AI instantly and get a feedback.
But having a robust IAM system will be very important.
And how you store that data cost-effectively
also will be in our problem.
And once you say, figure it out,
fine train and fine tune,
then will be starting to inference.
And initially,
company enterprise will probably start internally,
so it will be hit, you know,
a thousand or 10,000 times or QPS, right,
queries per second.
And if it's stored on-prem,
then it will start a lot of issues
because now the server can't handle, right?
And you're too afraid to go to open that to public
because you're dealing with sensitive data.
So to scaling that is also infrastructure issues.
And so we're helping enterprise
to think through all that problem.
So I would say we're almost like a consultation,
consultant for them to solve that problem,
so that's like, I see on the enterprise side.
In terms of startup,
it's speed,
scale and ease of use, right?
They don't wanna wait six months.
They want it now, right?
And also cost,
because all other,
I mean, not intend to kind of talk it OpenAI,
but when Sora came out,
it was so beautiful, six months ago, right?
But now,
six months later,
it's okay compared to other video generative companies.
So speed matters a lot to startups, right?
So I think providing scaled GPU usage to startups
will be very important.
And also second point is ease of use, right?
Ease of use is,
it's hard to deploy bare-metal, right?
It's much easier to use API keys,
to deploy whatever model they want.
And they don't wanna spend time
on dealing with infrastructure either, right?
Imagine like you're just spinning up a website
and you have to think about whether your server
will go up or down,
and what's the variables that you have to tune,
that's too much work.
So you wanna rely that on to infrastructure.
So I guess that would be opportunities and risks that I see
in terms of enterprise and startups.
<v ->Thank you for that.</v>
I think another aspect to this
is the cost savings piece, right?
When you're using AI models
to analyze potential investments.
Tony, I would really like to hear your feedback
on that as well as Warren and Tien,
from an investor perspective,
when you're looking through that,
you know, from the cost savings.
<v ->Let's just talk cost.</v>
Well, AI, I see really two vectors,
there's efficiency, which is cost,
and then there are breakthroughs,
beyond cost, okay?
So yeah, of course,
in enterprise, which is, you know, the big,
there's a hundred trillion dollar GDP, right?
It's a hundred trillion dollars.
IT spending is, you know, small percentage of that GDP.
You know the biggest single-dollar item
in that hundred trillion dollars is labor.
So labor is two-thirds,
70, 60, 70% of an enterprise's spend.
So agents, AI, productivity, co-pilots,
on and on and on and on, they attack,
at the end of the day,
they're gonna attack the central biggest line item of cost,
that is labor.
And so Warren brought up, he's building vertical apps
that have this kind of service element to it
with AI software.
So to me, that is the biggest single biggest opportunity.
And you're seeing it,
you're seeing it, people are even saying it's digital labor,
digital workers,
and if you can reduce cost efficiency, et cetera,
that's number one.
So this is going to be a narrative vein
that will extend for the next, you know, five years
as agents become more, more widespread.
So that's efficiency cost in my opinion.
That's what's gonna happen.
Because IT budgets are not growing to the sky,
they're growing GDP plus.
So where are you gonna buy all this compute?
You're gonna bring all this new stuff in?
Where's the budget coming from?
Well, you gotta take it out,
you've gotta take the dollar out of something
to fund all of this spend.
To me, the single biggest thing is the labor.
So that's, I think that's gonna be a big push.
Then there's AI that has nothing to do with that.
And you saw that at Jensen's keynote on Monday.
It is AI for breakthroughs, scientific breakthroughs,
that unlock things that potentially,
that has nothing to do with cost savings and efficiencies.
Can we achieve breakthroughs in biology and materials
and chemistry and autonomy?
And that brings a different kind of dynamic
that is what I call a net additive to the market
than just cost efficiency.
So both of these things are gonna probably parallelize.
So that's what I think on cost.
<v ->Yeah, well, it's a great answer.</v>
And, you know, our companies at the very earliest stages,
you know, many of them are focused on doing the same job,
just significantly lower cost,
so, you know, scenario number one.
A few of our companies
are working on the absolute breakthrough technologies.
And I mean, I'm gonna be very candid.
Like I would love to spend 95% of my time on the innovations
that are gonna completely disrupt industries and like,
you know, healthcare,
you know, we're gonna truly have personalized medicine,
we're gonna know each of our personal genomes
and we're gonna be able to prescribe molecules that,
you know, cure our cold and we're over it,
and, you know, it's like those old Star Trek episodes.
You know, somebody has kidney failure
and Bones gives them a shot and, you know,
you're done with your kidney failure.
That's what I wanna work on.
But the reality, I believe,
and it's gonna, it's gonna get closer and closer
to where we can play in that.
But that's still,
at fundamentally larger capital expenditure,
especially if you're talking about like healthcare.
I know that Tony's involved with a quantum computer company,
these are things that we can't get involved with.
But all that being said,
there's a lot of low-hanging fruit
where there's a significant amount
and percentage of cost savings that can accrue
into these vertical markets.
And because those can be funded with,
our pre-seed check is a million dollars.
And Tony doesn't wake up for, you know, 10 million bucks.
I don't wanna speak for him but,
lose change in his couch, you know.
<v ->But, you know, just think about it,</v>
1% savings on a hundred trillion dollars
is a trillion dollars.
Okay and then the market,
S&amp;P's trading at, I don't know, 20 times?
You could capitalize $20 trillion of market value
with 1% savings.
<v Denise>Exactly.</v>
<v ->That's on cost.</v>
But imagine if you create new creation.
<v Denise>Yeah.</v>
<v ->Of breakthroughs</v>
and then that's on top of just, you know,
AI is on one hand,
yeah, we're gonna be hyper fixated
in the tactical near term about cost, cost, cost,
efficiency, efficiency, efficiency.
But like Warren said,
it's more fun to be betting on the breakthroughs.
But to fund, you know,
these multi-trillion dollar AI CapEx investments
that's coming in the next decade,
how are you gonna pay for that?
You know, you gotta come out of something.
<v ->Exactly.</v>
So from a practical standpoint,
what do you feel is right now the common trend, Moyi,
when it comes to what typical startups
from a data perspective
tend to be the go-to startups to try to fund
or, you know, that are getting a lot of traction right now
from a data perspective?
And I would love to hear your opinion too, Tien.
<v ->Okay, well so,</v>
well, I'm not an investor,
so I don't really,
I'm not sure this is what you're looking for.
<v Denise>No, no, no.</v>
What I meant is from like a data perspective.
<v ->Okay.</v>
<v Denise>When you see</v>
what the companies that you are evaluating right now,
what do they tend to be?
What verticals do they tend to be in?
<v ->Well, one trend that I see is,</v>
I would argue that
companies in almost every industry
needs an internal AI platform,
which is an evolution of a machine learning platform,
which used to be found only in the big tech companies.
And the reason for this is that
AI is a truly transformational technology,
as others have alluded to here.
AI agents can increase productivity
for many different teams across many verticals of a company.
And at the same time,
AI is a full stack problem.
It isn't really just, you know,
machine learning or data science.
It goes back to the data,
the quality of the data
and how that data,
where that data is stored,
the model risks, the model deployment.
So all of those best practices can be applied
and used across different divisions in the company.
<v ->That makes sense.</v>
Tien, would you like to add a few comments?
<v ->Yeah, I mean, we're looking at mostly digital health,</v>
health technology as well as biotechnology
and drug development for AI,
specifically application-wise and also CRM.
So I come from a CRM background.
We are already seeing 80% reduction of labor costs
for lower to middle.
I'd like to know what the $70 trillion worth of labor.
How much of that is lower or middle,
because there's gonna be some major disruption.
But the fun part about,
let's say the CRM, let's take that for an example,
you're gonna see personalized customer service,
customer experience,
and, you know, companies,
the big brands are looking at trying to enhance LTV
and purchase amounts and longevity of the relationship
by doing that.
So that's kind of the cool part of the AI.
And on the CRM labor side,
yeah, you're seeing at least in 80% reduction,
in some cases more.
But yeah,
and we are looking at a lot of technology in that space.
It's all agent-driven for the most part.
And it's pretty low-hanging fruit, I think.
<v ->Yeah, yeah.</v>
So I'm gonna jump a little bit to a different topic
that I think since we have limited time
is very important to address is the diversity factor, right?
As we're gathering data,
other panels have talked about
making sure that the data that's being fed into these models
come from very diverse backgrounds that are practical
and that apply to the use case within that vertical.
So Warren, would you like to share a little bit
about that too?
And then Alex, I'd love for you to follow that.
<v ->Yeah, I mean,</v>
clearly if you're gonna be catering to a global economy,
you need data that represents
the global perspective, et cetera.
I mean, you think about healthcare immediately
where there's been,
and hopefully this is getting at the answer to the question,
but like in healthcare,
there's been lots and lots of studies
on white middle-aged males,
and yet the diversity of our population in the US
and of course globally,
doesn't represent that whatsoever.
You're not gonna be able to advance healthcare
if you're not looking at a diverse data set
that represents everybody across the board.
If you're looking at consumers
and you're trying to do market research
and you're looking to sell to a diverse customer base,
you need data that represents your diverse customer base.
So ultimately, we have an obligation,
it's not even,
there's an economic motive
there have diversity across our data sets,
to have diversity in our workforces,
and to be able to serve a truly global population.
There is no company in our portfolio
that is not going after ultimately the global marketplace.
And that is as diverse as it gets.
And that's what you need your data to be represented.
<v ->Yeah, I think that is,</v>
that is a very interesting insight.
So I would like to talk about
in terms of like sovereign AI side, right?
So people have said, you know, AI is racist, whatnot, right?
But it's actually just a data problem,
because just on the dataset it's trained to train
on all the publicly available data
is skewed towards a certain groups, right?
Just the way it is.
That's why each nation state or company
will develop their own AI, right?
For example, if you ask OpenAI,
say, hey, what is the best udon place in Kyoto?
They probably won't know,
because it does not have that data, right?
It's the way it is.
And so that's why it's very important
to have a local language LLM in areas, right?
And maybe create some sort of MOE,
mixture of experts, right,
so when you're asking a question,
it would just automatically,
so you go through a first layer of LLM that sorts
which agent or which LLM to ask a question to
and use that LLM specifically for that data.
I think that's your answer towards kind of diversity,
which is, you know, you create different domain-specific
or area-specific or geolocation-specific LLM model
that have different insights.
And when you ask that question,
then you'll be able to have a more much accurate answer.
<v Denise>That's great, thanks.</v>
<v ->I would just add on the data thing.</v>
I think there's a lot of these questions are about
this diversity question is around human data,
human-created data,
but it's already all been consumed.
The vast majority of human-created data is already,
is at least the publicly available data
for the most part is already been pre-trained.
It's already done in the pre-training.
And so, you know,
you hear that you're running out of pre-training data
for human side.
And then you have this other kinds of scaling laws,
which is extending now to what they call it inference time
or test time compute, which is a different kind of thing.
And it is not about just pre-training on,
oh, let's get this data set in the Middle East
and the Asian people.
For the most part, that's already been done, okay?
So this test time or inference compute
is gonna be this reasoning models.
and then a lot of this is synthetic data.
And this is like for maybe,
it might be 90% synthetic data,
five, 10% human data.
And so especially as you enter these other domains
like the physical world,
robotics, autonomous driving,
et cetera, et cetera,
what they call world model,
not a language model, but a world model,
a lot of that's gonna be synthetic data generated.
And so this idea of like we're fixated on,
we gotta get the human data right,
well, it's already been all consumed.
<v ->And as far as like the founders though, Tony,</v>
and also Warren and Tien,
how do you feel, is it important,
is that part of the ethos to have diversity in the founders?
I mean, do you see a value add there
or is that something that's a component that may or may not?
<v ->I mean, I'm just, you know,</v>
yeah, sure, yes.
But you want great people,
you want great leaders, great people,
and they can come from everywhere in the world.
<v ->Yeah, I would concur.</v>
I think,
the founders will find us.
And so we select from the founders who do find us,
and we're very proud of the diversity
within our founder portfolio.
But the thing we can control is the diversity of the team,
the executive team, the management team,
with the recruiting capabilities that we bring to bear
and kind of get started.
You start with a diverse group,
you have a diversity of opinions.
If you don't have a diversity of opinions,
you automatically have group think
that's not good for business.
So you wanna start off on the right direction
with respect to diversity.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
So thank you, thank you to our amazing panelists
for their perspective
and for your energy in this room as well.
Thank you.