<v ->All right, everybody.</v>
I think we're gonna get started here now today.
So, thank you so much for all being here.
I know that it is the Thursday, the third day,
and we're in the last session.
So again, we can't thank you guys enough for being here.
And so today, we're gonna be jumping
into some of the cybersecurity conference panel session.
We're gonna be taking a look
at data breach prevention and protection
within our industry right now.
So, we're gonna kind of break it down into three main parts.
What is the current kind of landscape we are seeing
in the cybersecurity space right now?
What should companies do when they're attacked,
both from a preventative standpoint,
also from an after they get our attack standpoint,
cleaning up the mess, basically, is that one would say.
And then finally,
what are some of the emerging technologies
or different things people are doing
to preventing attacks in the future?
So my name is Kyle Wandel.
I'm a Manager of Business Intelligence
on Consumer Technologies Market Research Team.
I've been with CTA or in this space
for around five, six years now,
and I work on an industry forecast.
So I have a good idea
of what are the main kind of technology trends
that are happening in the space.
So, I'll turn it over to Meredith.
Do you need help to introduce yourself?
<v ->Sure. Hi, everyone.</v>
Thank you so much for being here.
I'm Meredith Griffanti,
I'm the Global head of Cybersecurity
and Data Privacy Communications at FTI Consulting.
So what does that mean?
I lead a team of crisis communications professionals
that sort of swoop in in the middle of an incident
and help companies that are experiencing an attack
figure out what to say to their employees,
to regulators, their customers, the media,
how to say it, when, timing,
and how to protect their reputations
really coming out of the incident
stronger than before it happened.
And when we're not actively fighting cyber crime,
we're helping companies
to really take the best practices we see on the front lines
and apply those into preparedness plans,
crisis communications, resiliency plans,
because it's not a matter of if, but when, these days.
So that is the team I lead,
and really excited to be here
and talk about this exciting subject.
<v Kyle>Thank you. Brendan?</v>
<v ->I guess it's my turn.</v>
My name is Brendan Rooney, I work with Booz Allen Hamilton.
I lead our Incident Response Team globally.
So we have personnel that are in the U.S., the UK,
Netherlands, a number of other countries around the world.
Our team, similar to Meredith at FTI, in terms of the,
I would say, responding to crisis scenarios,
our team assists with a variety
of different digital forensic investigations
and recovery capabilities
with organizations that fall victim
to a variety of different types of incidents,
from ransomware compromise
to more general network intrusions,
insider threat activities.
All of our work on our team is in the private sector,
whereas some of my colleagues operate
with a variety of different federal agencies
or other organizations
that are aligned to the U.S. government.
<v ->Awesome, thank you.</v>
And so let's just kind of dive right into it.
And I mean this kind of a little bit open-ended
to either one of you, you can please respond.
But what are some of the main types of attacks
or companies that are currently facing,
and what type of industries or entities do you see
to be the most vulnerable at the moment right now?
<v ->Ooh, great question.</v>
I'll start and you jump in.
<v ->Yeah, yeah, sure.</v>
<v ->Of course,</v>
ransomware continues to be the sort of incident du jour.
It causes the most operational disruption,
it's highly public.
So, we're seeing a lot of ransomware, data theft,
data extortion type of incidents.
Right now, if you're following the news,
you might have read a little bit
about some of the salt typhoon type of incidents,
so more APT nation-state espionage.
It affected a number of the wireless carriers.
T-Mobile, AT&amp;T, Verizon we're hearing a lot about.
So we are working on a number
of those types of incidents as well.
I think those are kind of top of mind hot topics
for us right now.
What about you guys? What you're seeing.
<v ->Yeah, I mean I think ransomware is easy</v>
'cause it draws headlines for...
Been kind of in the, in some ways,
the ransomware world for the last probably 10 to 12 years.
Feels like an eternity.
But there was a point in time
where that wasn't really talked about.
My wife generally didn't really know a whole lot
about what ransomware was.
And to kind of be in a position now
where it's kind of grabbing global headlines
on a frequent basis
is a little bit of a changing topic of conversation
at our dinner table.
I would say, though, that independent of ransomware,
and in some cases, depending on the situation,
maybe even related,
is the prevalence of insider threat activity.
I would say even certainly so
relative to the technology industry
is the ability for an inside employee to very quickly,
easily, and in many ways in an undetected fashion,
be able to quickly siphon
highly-sensitive intellectual property
and potentially even really substantial trade secrets
that could impact the future of an organization.
<v ->And in terms of,</v>
you asked about the most vulnerable industries and sectors,
I think we skipped that part of your question.
I would say healthcare, hospitals,
they tend to have very interconnected systems,
a lot of dependencies on third-party vendors,
and generally speaking,
are under-resourced and under-prepared
when it comes to their cybersecurity defenses.
So, quick way for threat actors to make a buck.
You think about the types of medical information
that hospitals, for example, hold,
as well as the potential disruption to patient care.
Those are easy targets for threat actors
because they're most likely to pay.
So, I would say that industry, in particular,
tends to be a target.
We're reading a lot right now about education systems,
local governments, municipalities,
being quite affected by these ransomware attacks
or nation-state incidents.
The financial services sector tends to be better prepared,
just because of the level of investment,
the sophistication that goes into their controls.
So I would say that's one of the better,
stronger ends of the spectrum.
Whereas you look at healthcare and public entities,
and those tend to be less well-resourced.
<v ->Hmm, yeah, I'd add to that,</v>
that the rapid adoption
of a variety of different technologies
also has a immediate propensity
to increase the digital footprint
or attack surface of many organizations.
And I'd say the insertion
of a substantial amount of updated or new tech
into manufacturing as an example
creates an expanded attack surface
in a way that it gets increasingly more difficult
for many of these organizations, very large and very small,
to not only understand what that footprint looks like,
but also to protect it
and defend against this type of malicious activity.
So, for us manufacturing
and other similarly related industries,
especially the supply chain
up and down the manufacturing sector,
has seen a pretty substantial amount of activity.
And that's certainly a contributing factor.
<v ->And this is actually perfect timing, Mike,</v>
because they just kind of alluded
to one of the biggest themes that I've seen
in the past year or so,
which is the idea of how we are now more connected devices,
more and more wireless devices
are in our industry more than ever before.
So with your expertise in IoT,
how are connected devices contributing
to this vulnerability in cybersecurity?
<v ->That's a great question.</v>
By the way, I'm Mike Bergman,
Vice President of Technology and Standards at CTA.
Apologies for being late.
So, one of the challenges we have
is that there's a sea of connected devices out there.
There's 18 billion connected right now, something like that.
And those devices are all around the world.
And a little more context,
if you look at the huge attack on the United States in 2016,
known as the Mirai botnet attack, that was...
driven by connected devices.
And if you look at where the traffic came from,
91% of that traffic
came from outside the United States' borders.
And so we have a global issue
with these connected devices getting hacked
and then turned into one type of attack vector or another.
And one of the things that they're doing
is they're using these connected devices
to help find openings, to find exploits,
to look for common exploits or known exploits,
and then start working their way into systems.
So once they find a vulnerable system,
drop malware, otherwise infiltrate the system,
and then soon you've got a ransomware problem.
So, we are looking for ways to improve the situation.
In general, there's the new U.S. Cyber Trust Mark
for consumer devices.
The federal government is tightening requirements
on connected devices.
We have similar programs in the EU, UK,
Germany, Finland, Singapore, Malaysia, all over the world.
So, we recognize that there's a problem,
but even if we flipped every manufacturer over right now
to something perfectly secure,
we still have 18 billion devices out there
and a bunch in the pipeline.
And so all of the challenges, and opportunities,
and precautions on data breach are gonna be...
Are still necessary from this perspective
of the connected devices for a long time
because of that legacy base.
<v ->And that kind of brings me kind of in over the next point</v>
because of how many incidents there are have been
and how difficult it is to really protect
every single connected device in our industry.
Meredith, from your perspective, what from a...
What do should companies do to navigate the aftermath
after they do have an incident,
whether it be data breach or any type of other incident
that could occur at the company?
<v ->Sure, I would say one of the biggest pain points</v>
we tend to see with our clients
is the communications work stream.
We tend to, when we respond to incidents,
have forensics, ransom negotiations, recovery, comms, legal,
everyone's kind of divided up into work streams.
And there's an onslaught of inquiries
that come in not just from the media,
not just from regulators, not just from employees,
but really from customers.
And what customers want to know in particular
if the organization is B2B is:
What is the risk to my own network from your incident
if there's points of interconnectedness
or reliance on different systems or platforms?
So, they want assurances that the incident is contained,
they want the CISO or the InfoSec team
to share helpful indicators of compromise,
so that the customer can load those
into their own vulnerability scans
and find points of weaknesses on their own systems.
They want attestation letters from third parties,
and they want a phone call, right,
with the Head of InfoSec, or the CEO,
or their customer sales rep.
So, I would say the biggest pain point
is really equipping the front lines with the right messaging
so that no one's shooting from the hip,
as well as sort of an escalation process.
Everyone feels like their customer
is the most important during an incident.
And of course, all customers are equal.
But, if a top 10 customer that makes up, for example,
a big portion of the revenue
wants a phone call with the CISO,
how do we make that determination,
and what's the process
for getting that customer on the phone
and kind of calming them down?
So you amplify that type of incident
for a Fortune 50 company
that has customers all over the world,
different levels of sophistication,
different language needs, time zones.
I think really thinking
about setting up that command center, if you will,
to triage those inbounds
to have a process in place for tracking everything,
understanding who's been told what when.
I cannot tell you how many times
after the fact we have to turn all of that over
to regulators who wanna sift through it
and make sure that you were being consistent
in your messaging with employees,
with the media, with customers, et cetera.
Especially if you're a publicly traded company,
you now have SEC disclosure obligations to worry about
and Reg FD, of course.
So thinking about all of that stuff in advance
and war-gaming it out,
I mean, we do these high-level tabletops
with our customers or with our clients all the time,
but a couple hours focusing on the whole incident response
is valuable, of course.
But really drilling down
into that communications process, and protocol,
and practicing what it's like to move a couple of inquiries
from one stage gate to another,
I think can be worth its weight all day every day
because that's where we see companies tend to fall down.
<v Kyle>No, perfect.</v>
And this is kind of open to everybody,
but in terms of a clientele, or a recent example,
what did a thorough investigation
that has helped an organization to recover,
and like what was the outcome
of that positive investigation?
I guess Brendan,
you probably might have the most expertise with this one
in terms of your client base.
<v Brendan>Yeah, fortunately,</v>
or unfortunately, I guess.
<v Kyle>Yep.</v>
<v ->Depends on the situation.</v>
I'll maybe spin your question a little bit differently
of what can, in my opinion,
from what we see on a frequent basis,
what can make or break an organization's response
to an incident?
And as ridiculous as this may sound in some ways,
it is very basic security concepts
that ultimately do create the best outcome.
I think very well-known,
even if you have or have not been
in the middle of one of these incidents before,
that time is critical.
And from Meredith's perspective,
time to reach out to clients,
time to reach out to customers,
not only what you're contractually required to do,
but also how do you continue to enable your business
to be successful going forward?
But time to recover.
That's why RTO and RPO calculations
are critical proactively.
But, there is a foundational concept
that if an organization does not have a full
and in-depth understanding
of what assets they're ultimately responsible for,
and this probably dovetails nicely
into Mike's prior comment,
then it is very difficult to be able to go to a client,
customer, partner, however they're defined,
in a circumstance like Meredith described and say that,
"Here's your attestation
that you can reestablish a connection with our organization,
and that that connection, or that channel,
whatever that might be, is ultimately secured."
You can't do that if you don't have a full
and in-depth understanding
of what the connection actually consists of
and what devices are ultimately under your responsibility.
So, asset inventory
and being able to secure the organization at the edge
is absolutely critical
because that is the first question we ask is:
Okay, you're telling us there was an incident,
what was affected?
If you can't answer the question,
then we basically have to then answer the question for you.
And that takes us a far longer period of time
than if we can actually be provided with an answer quickly,
or at least some semblance of an answer.
It'll always change over time.
So, that's what I would say, in my opinion,
makes or breaks a successful response.
And the ripple effect that is created,
whether or not they can answer that question,
is potentially catastrophic
to the organization's long term (indistinct).
<v Meredith>Well, just to tack on,</v>
that also goes for data governance, too.
<v ->Oh, yeah.</v>
<v ->Like, it's asset inventory.</v>
And then I can't tell you how many times we ask a client,
"Okay, well, what's stored on that server?
What's in this?
What does this employee have access to?"
And they're like, "Well, we have no idea."
I'm like, "Well, great."
Well, we don't know what to tell our customers then.
So, same concept there applies.
<v ->Yeah, can we say that to our largest client</v>
or largest customer in the middle of an incident?
Ideally not.
<v ->And what about the smaller customers, too?</v>
I mean, I can't tell you how many times I've heard the story
of, "And then we test our...
And then we tried our backups, but the backups didn't work."
And I think the smaller entities have the data governance,
data governance policies.
Meredith was mentioning the preparation,
being ready for that attack.
It's just not invested in as much.
Frequently, as further you go down the scale
of size of business,
so it becomes a real challenge in being able to recover
when you haven't done the preparation.
And that preparation, unfortunately,
is a cost factor for the small companies
that often they won't invest in.
<v ->I mean, Mike, that kind of...</v>
Sorry to, as you clear your throat there,
but that kind of leads me into my...
Perfect for my next question
in terms of from an industry-wide collaboration,
'cause obviously small businesses can't do it alone.
How can we help organizations recover more effectively
from large-scale incidents?
<v ->So, large...</v>
I mean, one of the more interesting large-scale incidents
was the Microsoft SolarWinds.
And there was not just the individual organizations
working on their own,
they were working with their vendors,
they were bringing in their consultants, and partners,
and companies that helped them with recovery.
And the Department of Homeland Security was involved.
There were phone calls,
CISA hosting phone calls with 150, 200 people.
On the call, most of them CISAs,
most of them saying, "What do we do?"
So,
obviously, the recovery plan goes into effect,
but it's all hands on deck, I would say.
Brendan, Meredith maybe have perspective as well.
It just...
You gotta be firing on all eight cylinders
<v ->That, and I mean,</v>
there's no way around needing to test, develop...
Well, develop, test incident response plans,
disaster recovery, business continuity plans,
even just having, if you're a smaller organization,
a 24, 48, 72-hour checklist of,
"What am I doing first?
Who am I calling?
Who are the vendors I'm gonna need to bring in?
Have I met them?
Am I shaking their hand on day one?
Do I have cybersecurity insurance?"
Those are things that I think smaller organizations
can think about ahead of time
to really ensure that if they do find themselves
in a worst-case scenario,
recovery is as planned out as possible
because they know who they're gonna call.
<v ->Mm-hmm, and you have to allocate the resources</v>
to do that in the first place.
<v ->Sure.</v>
<v ->And I think it's the most challenging piece.</v>
I know a 200-person organization
where the IT manager says he's got 64 items
on his to-do list that are all marked critical.
And then after that,
he can talk about a business continuity plan, response plan,
any of this type of planning for the future.
A lot of the smaller businesses
are just hoping the worst does not happen.
<v Kyle>And I mean, that kind of leads perfect segue</v>
into the next point
in terms of how we can prevent future attacks going forward.
And I think Meredith, I'll start with you,
and everybody please chime in,
but what is the first step,
and what are ways employees can train...
or employers can train their employees and educate them
to prevent future data breaches?
<v ->Ooh, good question.</v>
Look, I think we all probably have at our organizations
the typical like click-through training,
and this a phishing email, spot the insider threat.
I think it's good
that those are part of our regular compliance
and annual trainings,
but do they really move the needle?
Who knows? I think where...
And just to give you this background,
I came from an organization into consulting
that had a massive breach.
How many people have heard of the company Equifax?
Yeah, I was the Head of Crisis Communications
during their 2017 breach.
So, I have a little of experience,
a little bit of experience with this.
And what I would say is the company
really went through a top-down, bottom up shift
in the way that it prioritized cybersecurity.
It became the first thing we talked about at every meeting,
it was on the agenda for every town hall.
The company post-incident tied annual incentive bonuses
to individual security goals
for every employee of the company.
You regularly saw our CISO in your email inbox
reminding you of things.
We became very involved in certain groups
that advocated for consumer privacy
and better cyber awareness training.
So, I think it's more than just doing the bare minimum.
It's really a culture shift,
and we have a program on my team now,
but just because we do think this is so important
where companies can hire us, essentially,
to benchmark their culture of cybersecurity and figure out:
Do I have a good culture?
What are some of the things I need to be doing as a leader
to move the needle,
so that next year, when we do the same benchmarking,
we can see the progress we've made?
Or if we haven't made any progress,
we know what levers to pull to make the score move,
almost like a NIST framework or something like that,
this is specific to culture.
So, I do think training is important,
I do think awareness is important,
but I really think, to sum it up,
it starts at the top
and it has to be an organization-wide priority
for it to really make a difference.
<v ->Mm-hmm, can I just piggyback on that?</v>
I think that is so smart
because the shifting of corporate culture,
regardless of what shift you want,
shifting a corporate culture is an enormous task.
And if you go back to like the '60s and '70s
when the United States' manufacturing industry
was getting hammered by quality...
Sorry, automotive industry was getting hammered
by quality concerns,
as compared to imports.
Companies like Ford
put together massive campaigns internally,
very similar to what you're describing at Equifax,
where it suddenly became job one to do quality,
and that became an actual marketing slogan.
But if you were at Ford, you were part of a quality circle,
you were part of ongoing requirements
to find and remove errors, error cause removal.
Kaizen was the word.
So there's all of this stuff going on
and incentives tied to your pay,
the whole thing, exactly what you're describing,
Ford had to go through that.
And what happened? They did turn it around.
It took them a decade to turn it around,
even with this massive push.
And it's just an enormous effort to shift a culture.
So you can't do it, I believe, without C-suite push.
And I mean CISO is a C-suite office,
but I think a CEO is much-
<v Meredith>And the board.</v>
<v ->And the board, yeah,</v>
it really has to be something
that the corporation considers a priority
because it is an expense, not a revenue opportunity,
not a profit increase opportunity.
It's a cost center element.
It's hard to get that level of commitment and priority.
It's unfortunately where we're at.
<v ->Mike, as a Metro Detroiter,</v>
I'm a big fan of Alan Mulally,
so I appreciate that you made that reference.
And I think some of that mind shift
is to see security as a business enabler, right?
I mean, everyone's here
because of the rapid pace of technological innovation
and adoption across a variety of industries
to make all of our lives better.
Pretty safe to say that.
That can't entirely be accomplished
in the way that it's intended,
as far as making the impact to of the lives of a consumer,
the continued operation of a business,
and to keep pace with the level of innovation
that's expected,
and in many ways incumbent upon us
to continue to operate a healthy economy
and a global market.
If what we are implementing
and what we're creating and building
doesn't have security built into its foundation
to either protect the privacy of consumers
or protect, in some cases,
the physical security of those consumers as well.
<v ->And Brendan, I kinda wanna stay with your comment,</v>
going off that right there is:
What type of technologies
are you seeing in this space right now
that are helping kind of make that transformation?
Whether it be from a culture shift
or from a how to basically prevent...
Enhance incident response
or prevent any type of incident from happening?
So maybe a technology like automation or something.
<v ->Yeah, and I think it almost dovetails quite nicely</v>
into some of Mike's prior comments
is relative to resourcing,
that's a challenge that we have in our consulting business.
It's a challenge that every organization around the world,
large or small,
there's a very common thread of resourcing
and resourcing for highly-qualified cyber defense operators
in a way that prevents either nation-state-level adversaries
or criminal adversaries
that are maybe targeting a little bit lower hanging fruit.
It is the ability
to sift through what is actually the most important thing
that they need to respond to.
So, you made the comment about the friend of yours
was 64 critical items on his checklist.
That is a lot of critical items.
And if you were to look at many EDR tools,
or you look at many seams,
or other sort of log aggregators that are gonna tell you
what is the highest level of importance
of what thing you need to respond to,
everything's gonna be red, yellow,
maybe some green, a couple of orange in there,
probably depends on how the product company
presents that information.
But there's a lot of things that you would have to do.
And ultimately, the ability to create higher fidelity alerts
for the analyst to be able to respond faster
and respond in a way that creates a better impact
to preventing malicious activity
is ultimately that's what we look to
and that's what we advise our clients on.
Whether that's AI-enabled,
whether it's machine-learning-operated,
or a variety of other outcomes to achieve that.
<v Kyle>And I mean, perfect segue to the next spot,</v>
but Mike, I mean, you're the emerging technology expert
in terms of at CTA.
How are technologies like AI and quantum
kind of being leveraged proactively
to secure systems against future attacks?
<v ->So, that's kind of a two-pronged question.</v>
It's a great question.
So, starting with quantum.
I think it's not a secret
that we're anticipating that sometime in...
the next decade, the 2030s.
There will be, cryptographically relevant quantum computers,
CRQCs,
and these are computers that are powerful enough
to crack modern public key infrastructure,
public key encryption.
So, what happens then is anybody who is using public key,
the way we use it now with RSA and lift to curve,
anyone who's using that in 2035
is at risk of their data being collected and decrypted,
whether it's financial reports, intellectual property,
sensitive email communications, all of that.
So anything that's protected with TLS,
for example right now, HTTPS.
That's great.
All right, we've got a decade to prepare, right?
The problem is the harvest-now-decrypt-later problem,
which is data that is collected today,
whether it's by a competitor, a nation state,
that data can be decrypted
when that cryptographically relevant quantum computer
becomes available.
That means it's an immediate problem.
I mean, what secrets do you have now
that you really don't want revealed in 2035?
A lot of things have a sort of like a lifetime,
a half-life.
But there are some things, probably,
that you really don't want people to know about,
even 10 years from now,
and it may be trade secrets or something like that.
The formula for Coke,
the 11 herbs and spices in Kentucky Fried Chicken.
So, that means that the problem
of getting post-quantum safe is a real problem now.
So NIST, the Department of Commerce's
National Institute of Science and Technology,
has been driving development of algorithms,
standardization of those algorithms
into how they can be incorporated
into the tools that we use every day,
and encouraging industry to migrate.
How do you migrate?
Inventory your use of encryption
and public key infrastructure, know where you're using it,
and this goes to the point Meredith had made,
know what you're doing.
And then work with your vendors
on replacing what you're using now
with something that's quantum-safe.
The challenge is it would be nice
if just dropped in one for one replacement.
There's some things that are done a little bit differently.
But this is actually happening now.
And so get on that train a little bit.
Go to the NIST website.
All you have to do is hunt down NIST post-quantum roadmap,
and you can find information
on what you should be doing there.
And talk to your vendors, do your inventorying.
So, there's one.
The second one,
artificial intelligence is really interesting situation
because it's weapons for both sides, right?
It's red team and blue team weapons.
So you've got tools that are coming along nicely for...
endpoint detection of exploits and attacks
for all kinds of...
all kinds of compromises.
So, artificial intelligence is a very powerful tool.
That's great.
On the other hand, the hackers have it, too.
And so what we're seeing is we track a little of this
in terms of some companies that we watch
for the Nasdaq NQCYBR Index
to see who's using AI for what purposes on the attack side.
And we also hear about it from CISA
and other government agencies on the threat side.
And it's interesting because what I have seen,
I would characterize it as a race
where one side pulls ahead,
then the other side pulls ahead.
Right now, I'd give the hackers a slight edge.
And that's just the chaos that they benefit from.
<v Meredith>And the resources we give them, we pay them.</v>
<v ->Yeah, I mean if you look at...</v>
I don't know if you mentioned this, but the ransomware,
the biggest ransomware organizations are...
I mean, these are billion-dollar organizations now.
It's ridiculous.
I mean, something like $50 billion
for the largest organization, their revenue up to date,
and what they're doing with that is they're reinvesting it.
I mean, it's like going to war with Microsoft at this point.
<v ->So, going off that, like what are some of,</v>
and this is probably
more Brendan and Meredith kind of question,
but what are the top priorities for organizations right now
and looking to strengthen over the next five years?
So he mentioned quantum that's starting now,
but it won't be kind of industry-wide until 2035 or 2030s.
What are some of the top priorities right now
or organizations are doing to either, A, get ready for that,
or B, just prevent future attacks in general?
<v ->Do you wanna start?</v>
<v ->Yeah, I mean, I'm gonna use a prior comment that I made</v>
of...
taking it back to basic and foundational security concepts,
and that is the best place to start.
Resources will always continue to be a challenge,
and especially as there is, I think,
more sophisticated adoption of AI,
quantum threat becomes far more prevalent
as time progresses.
But that's the highest impact that can be made now.
So, I'd rather see whether at the enterprise level
or organizations that are much smaller
and in the SMB mid-market category, if you will,
I'd rather see monumental steps made
towards foundational security concepts
because they can make an immediate impact,
rather than massive investments in different products, even.
There are more policy-driven angles that can be taken
that don't require necessarily...
There's still some resource investment
of someone's time and labor,
but does not necessarily require
very large licensing purchases.
Doesn't necessarily require an organization
to go and buy every single product under the sun
in order to accomplish some of the foundational tasks
that someone ultimately should be responsible for
or held responsible for.
<v ->I couldn't agree more.</v>
I mean, I think it's the basic blocking and tackling
sort of the fundamentals of security
that we still see organizations fall down on
and are the cause of most breaches, right?
Like, they didn't apply a patch,
so patch management needs to be prioritized.
They're looking for some sort of new technology,
shiny bullet that they can install to keep them safer,
but yet they're behind on security and awareness training
or whatever it may be.
So, I do think you make such an important point
with the basic blocking and tackling,
asset inventory, all of those things.
Culture, prioritizing, as we said before,
the mindset of security is a priority for our company.
And that basic preparedness.
Having your incident response plan,
ensuring that it's practiced, tested, constantly evolved.
So many times, we're still seeing...
We get really excited when the root cause of an incident
is some like zero-day vulnerability or something like that,
but I can't tell you how few and far between those are.
It is still the basic,
like employee fell for a phishing link,
or creds, passwords were reused and scraped off the dark web
because an employee used the same one,
or passwords weren't rotated or complex enough.
And it's always those basic human-driven errors
that tend to be the cause
of so many of the big incidents we work on,
and really they're preventable.
So again, it's like knowing your assets,
legacy systems,
password requirements and complexity requirements,
training, awareness.
Those are the things
that companies still aren't getting right.
That lead to, I would say,
90% of the massive incidents we work on.
<v ->Hmm, and these are some of the largest organizations</v>
in the world
that are falling victim to an incident
that is ultimately stemming from the same challenge
that some of the smallest companies in the world
are dealing with as well.
Whether it's five endpoints
or 500,000 endpoints in an environment,
it is consistently the same problem.
<v ->Everything you guys are saying really resonates.</v>
One of the things I noticed the other day,
I was looking at CISA's
And 2023, I think this was.
And several of them were two or three years old.
It's like most exploited,
not something that just cropped up once or twice.
The most commonly exploited ones were known
and documented with CVEs three years before, so...
<v ->And patch was never applied.</v>
<v ->I mean, that's a perfect</v>
kind of in my last question for the day,
but because that is a governmental agency,
how can partnerships
between the private sector and the government
accelerate the adoption of these preventative measures
across the industry?
And I'll probably start with Mike
'cause you may have a better understanding,
but please open it up to everybody else after that.
<v ->Sure, sure. Well, one thing.</v>
It's not so much preventative as it is preparation,
but along with the other comments that Meredith had made,
I want to add in.
Get to know your local FBI office, right?
The first person you should call when you have been hacked
is that person.
And it shouldn't be the first time.
Again, this is something you were saying,
it should not be the first time you talk to your vendors.
It also shouldn't be the first time you talk to the FBI.
They're not there to like judge, "Can I help them?
And by the way, were any laws broken?"
They're entirely there to help you.
And yeah, they're gonna be talking to you
about whether or not you pay for the ransomware,
but ultimately, that'll be your call.
Definitely get to know the FBI, the local.
They would love to talk to you, trust me.
<v ->Yeah, and I think building on that,</v>
it depends on what industry you're in, too.
I mean, CISA can be a great partner
if you're deemed critical infrastructure.
Some of the ISACs are great,
the FS-ISAC for if you're in financial services
are really good sources of meaningful threat intelligence.
Totally agree with the FBI.
I might argue your first case
should be call to your lawyer, but...
<v ->Well, that too.</v>
<v ->But no, no, I'm joking.</v>
<v ->Not first off, yeah.</v>
<v ->But truly,</v>
we do see the FBI now providing, again, meaningful IoCs,
meaningful threat intelligence.
maybe they had a case with the same bad guys a week ago
where a payment was made
and the company was re-extorted anyways,
we see that a lot now.
So, I do think the partnership
between the government and private sector
has gotten stronger and better,
and there's not this fear anymore to pick up the phone
and call your local law enforcement, there's no...
We rarely see leaks to the public
or to the press coming from law enforcement,
and like, it's a great way to get some kudos, too,
if you do have to go public with the incident.
In particular, if you're dealing with a zero-day exploit
or a zero-day vulnerability,
you provide that to CISA,
CISA gives you a pat on the back for it.
You can go out and say we were proactive.
Rising tide lifts all boats.
We wanna be good partners to our peers
and to others in the industry
so that they can learn from this, too.
So, totally agree with what you said and echo everything.
<v ->Yeah, I'll definitely echo that again.</v>
Information sharing is critical,
and that's in many places,
not obviously a variety of these agencies
that you referenced have their own capabilities
to go research and identify this type of activity,
and certainly through the IC3
or other reporting avenues as well.
But, we help feed that information as well.
So we report this type of information
to various agencies in anonymized ways,
and only when we're authorized to do so.
But it helps to embolden the security posture
of the entire world.
So, that's the goal.
<v ->I will add on your information-sharing perspective.</v>
One of the kinds of information the FBI has,
keys to the ransomware that has been reused.
Sometimes, after the ransom is paid,
they discover that the hackers
are doing the same password sharing that...
or password reuse that we all do, right?
So they're like, "Well, we'll just use the same one.
We're not gonna generate a new key for this one."
And so the FBI sometimes
can actually uncrack the ransomware for you.
So definitely.
<v ->It's a great point.</v>
And sorry, last thing I'm gonna say,
I know we're out of time.
So our team actually worked on,
it's very public, we worked on it,
so it's a case I can actually talk about for once.
But we worked on the colonial pipeline crisis response
for that ransomware incident.
For anyone that doesn't know it,
that was the attack on the pipeline
that moves gasoline up and down the East Coast of the U.S.
So a couple years ago, if you ran out of gas,
that was the situation,
and the company notified the FBI so quickly
and was in touch with DHS, the DOE, the White House.
We were briefing the White House every day, the NSC,
and they acted so quickly
that the FBI was actually able to trace the payment
that the company made
to get the decryption key on blockchain to the bad guys
and then see the money moving to these different affiliates
of the ransomware gang.
And ultimately,
they were able to claw back to intercept that
and get some of the money back for the company.
Doesn't happen often,
but it was a benefit of the call
being one of the first they made to law enforcement.
So, it truly can help in times of need.
<v ->Thank you so much. I mean, thank you so much.</v>
We are out of time.
Getting a little cut off here,
but kind of to wrap it all up.
One thing, if you don't...
If you leave here with anything, I'm just gonna say it.
If you see it, say it,
and communication is key for cybersecurity.
So, thank you all so much.
Thank you all for being here,
and enjoy the rest of your show, please.