<v ->Good morning, and thank you so much</v>
for joining us this morning.
My name is Julie Kenar.
I work with NIQ/GFK, and I'm the automotive lead.
So, today we are going to talk about
AI and AR in vehicle technology.
We're gonna start very broad,
and talk about the manufacturing
and product development process,
and then we're gonna narrow it down to consumers,
and talk about how this technology is impacting consumers,
how they're benefiting from it,
and we're gonna discuss whether or not
the technology is actually meeting consumer needs.
And along the way,
we'll talk about both opportunities and challenges
with artificial intelligence and augmented reality.
So with me today, I have four esteemed experts in the field.
I have Wendy from 3M, Chris from Goodyear,
Jeff from Xperi, and Fedra from Bosch.
So I'd like to ask each of them
to please take a moment,
to introduce themselves,
tell you more about their company,
and give you a brief overview of
the technology that they're using today.
Fedra, would you like to start?
<v ->Thank you. So my name is Fedra, Fedra Ribeiro,</v>
and I work for Bosch.
Thank you for the introduction.
I work in the domain of compute and ADAS.
Bosch is a lead technology player
in the automotive industry,
and I am in the board of our division
of compute and ADAS.
<v ->Hi everyone, I'm Jeff Jury,</v>
I'm the general manager for the Connected Car for Xperi,
and we develop immersive entertainment solutions
for the automotive space,
and work with all the different
car companies on those implementations.
We do have a booth here
in the West Hall if you'd like to stop by.
And really our focus is whether it's audio,
video, gaming, whatever,
is to bring that content
into the home or into the vehicle.
And in our case, my division,
it's all about how to bring that
all into the car on a global basis.
<v ->Good morning, my name is Wendy Bauer.</v>
I'm our group president for transportation
and electronics at 3M.
For those of you that may not be familiar,
we're a material science company,
and manufacturing company that
really focuses on innovation for some
of the biggest global problems in the world,
spanning many industries from automotive,
to aerospace, to consumers, to personal safety,
climate technologies and beyond.
So we like to think of ourselves as uncomplicated,
if you've had an opportunity to see our booth,
but really bringing material science
and our ability to manufacture at scale to life,
in innovative solutions that really solve
a number of problems in those different industries.
<v ->So good morning, Chris Helsel,</v>
the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company.
We've been in business a little over 125 years.
Some people say, "Why are you guys at CES?"
And we're here because we're not only doing tires,
but how do we do things like tire intelligence.
And so, putting digital into tires,
and then making those connections with that,
to hopefully make driving safer, more efficient.
So I'm our chief technology officer.
I've been serving in that since 2017.
<v ->Thank you for the great introductions.</v>
So, we'll move along to our first question.
So as we all know, the auto industry
seems to always be in the stage of rapid transition.
It's impacted by regulations, by competition,
by consumers, and of course by technology.
So, if each of you could please
help the audience understand
how is your company addressing
one or more of these areas in the industry?
<v ->So maybe I'll start,</v>
if the rest if the colleagues agree.
So at Bosch, we serve the industry end-to-end,
and I will focus a little bit on the transition
towards software defined vehicle,
and software defined mobility.
If we focus a little bit on
the ADAS and the compute area
with optimization of electrical,
electronic architectures on one hand,
an advancement of safety functions,
artificial intelligence and softwarization
of the industry are two core trends
that we are addressing in our business.
So we can explore afterwards a little bit how,
but essentially increasing safety,
personalization, and comfort to the
OEM custom and customers.
<v ->I'd say one of the biggest innovations</v>
you'll see from a production perspective
will be over the air updates,
and the ability with software defined vehicles,
and the ability to take that,
and really innovate as fast in a car
as maybe not as fast as a cell phone,
but faster than a every five or six year cycle.
I think that'll be a revolution
in how cars will be updated and advanced in the future.
<v ->Yeah, for us at 3M it's really, you know,</v>
back to how do we think about bringing
our material science capabilities to life,
and however that manifests for our customers
in the respective industries,
particularly in the automotive industry.
Some of the macro trends that we're really focused on
is as we think about sustainable materials,
as we think about the safety of the vehicles,
as we think about repairability of the vehicles,
materials, innovations and materials
are constantly needed for each of those.
And so for us, as we think about technology,
part of it's understanding
the chemistry and the formulations,
and how to understand specific use cases,
and to bring that speed faster for our customers
as we think about how to make
a vehicle more sustainable or how
to (indistinct) vehicles so that I can repair them.
Materials sit at the core of all that,
but really understanding those formulations
at the speed of innovation that the industry is moving
is one of the best things that we can do
as we work with our customers.
<v ->I kind of mentioned in the start</v>
is the really connectivity.
And I'll use our specific example,
which is you think about
the only thing connecting a vehicle to the road,
is four palm size patches of rubber,
and they carry all the forces,
and keep you connected to ground,
which right now of course is earth.
And that's a really important job.
And we've done it for a long time
with chemistry and materials,
and make no mistake, that innovation continues,
but what we found is with this connectivity is
well why not also be able to monitor
exactly what's happening there,
the friction and those connecting forces objectively?
And it's something that becomes all the more important
when you get out of the loop of the activity of driving.
And so you as a driver do an awful lot
to inform that system you probably don't think about.
And when you're not there,
something has to provide that.
And so connectivity is something
that's allowing us to do that.
And you know, as we all start working
and keep working on this,
partners like Bosch, and the these control systems,
this is a really exciting trend that
we look forward to keep participating in.
<v ->Excellent, thank you.</v>
So, delving more into the
manufacturing and product development process,
how do you think that artificial intelligence
is influencing that process for each of your companies?
<v ->I could start, if you want on that.</v>
So, actually when I started at Goodyear,
it was all on commuter simulation.
Shockingly, I know I look really young,
but in 1985 I started doing computer aided engineering.
And the bottom line is that is,
you know, heavy, high compute, okay.
And it's awesome to run those kind of analyses,
but if you really wanna start doing
many of these things and more discovery,
you've made a heck of a lot of data,
whether through your testing or that kind of stuff.
And we've built a lot of artificial intelligence,
algorithms and almost expert design systems that help
especially new engineers who come into your teams,
be almost, have access to what
a very experienced engineer would have.
So it's a, think of it as almost like human augmentation
to make them much more sophisticated
than they really would've been warranted back in the day.
So, so we see a lot of coming,
and helping people get up to speed quicker.
<v ->So I'm gonna build up on what Chris shared here on data.</v>
For us at 3M, decades of data on formulations
and use cases for different,
different environments and requirements
that our customers have across
all these different industries.
So how do we think about taking that data,
as our engineers continue to push the boundaries
and solve new challenges for customers,
but learning from what we've done in the past.
So we see data used along with machine learning and AI
in the design cycles to speed it up,
to make it more efficient for them,
but to really push the boundaries of innovation
in the design side,
but then extending that even
into our manufacturing environment.
So the ability to run all of those simulations,
and really fine tune designs for customers
before I then go to the phase of
running samples in the manufacturing,
and spending spending not only the time and the resources,
but then the materials that have to get utilized
or even wasted if it doesn't pan out to be the right design.
So we see that through our entire design cycle processes,
our manufacturing processes,
but then even kind of how do we take that further,
to the benefit of our customer.
You know, one of the demos,
if you have an opportunity to go by our booth,
where we see that kind of flow through
into the manufacturing processes of our customers,
it is automated paint repair.
So taking 3M products,
but it's not just the product,
it's how do you use the product.
So when you think of kind of patterns
for repairing paint on a vehicle,
which is, you know, it's a complicated process
for our automotive OEM customers
in vehicle manufacturing environments,
but now how do you use the product
in the right pattern depending on
the surface you're trying to repair.
You can leverage the data from all the,
all the times that we've done this, you know,
the specific location on the vehicle
using AI and machine learning.
So not, you know, to summarize,
it's really how we do our design work,
but then again,
how our customers utilize the products
that we also create.
<v ->Great. So, with AI being so prevalent</v>
in the manufacturing and product development process,
I'd like to ask if there are any
any sense of an idea of, you know,
right now a new vehicle takes
four to six years to bring to market depending on the OEM.
If you hit a crystal ball,
what would you say that product development process
could potentially get down to?
<v ->Well, if I think about our experience in China,</v>
it's taking seven months.
So there is a bigger and bigger gap between our more,
let's say traditional established OEMs
and their product development cycle,
and tools and methods used, for example,
in China where you can through reuse of data,
like Wendy was saying,
and the connection between field optimization
and new product development, focusing on the core.
So not reinventing components and systems,
every time you develop a new vehicle.
You can get it down.
Well now, there are companies
doing the same job in seven months.
<v ->Wow, that's amazing.</v>
<v ->Yeah, I would say from a software perspective,</v>
we've seen some of our products launching,
that used to take maybe two or three years
into four or five weeks,
because everything, again,
going back to over the air updates
and the ability to rapidly prototype,
that didn't exist maybe five or six years ago
in the automotive space is unbelievable.
So you get a wide range now across,
in some cases it's traditional five, six years,
in other cases, they will have it out in months.
Very different.
<v ->Yeah, I think for us,</v>
we do a tremendous amount of business
with the electronics industry,
consumer electronics, so PC, phones, tablets, et cetera.
And what we've seen in that industry,
is distinctly different than
some of the others that we support,
is the speed of innovation that our customers
and the industry is demanding of us.
So we've really had to think about
if we're gonna best serve and collaborate
with those customers and meet their
speed of innovation expectations,
we have to be able to keep that pace,
and to be able to innovate with them and for them.
So we're, you know, thinking about how to use
virtual testing capabilities or whatnot,
but really bringing the best of what we can do
to serving one industry,
and applying that to others as well.
<v ->Fascinating, just amazing how quickly</v>
things are changing,
and how quickly new products can come to market.
So outside of AI,
are there other innovations
that you feel are impacting the manufacturing process?
And I don't know, Wendy, I saw you nodding your head,
so maybe start with you.
<v ->Yeah, I, you know, I mentioned an example</v>
of how our customers are utilizing
our knowledge and data kind of in their environment.
I think similarly we're looking to leverage technology,
whether it's, you know, basic data visibility,
and real-time analytics and machine learning,
on the factory floor.
A lot of vision systems around quality detection,
but really for us it's, we wanna be able
to move and service our customers as best as possible.
So leveraging every piece of
capability that's out there from a
tools or technology and data perspective,
to really keep refining the operations of our environment,
and getting closer connectivity tissue
to our customers to respond to them more timely.
So, excellent.
<v ->Yeah, I would build on the quality.</v>
And it is related with AI,
but a lot of the image
and automated inspection systems,
you know, we make over 150 million tires a year,
and each and every one of 'em
has to be hand inspected at the end of a line.
So you imagine that if, you know,
your job is coming down a conveyor
is to take a tire,
it gets automatically set up, it's rotating,
and you're under these kind of lights,
and looking for anomalies.
And a lot of really cool things coming,
and that we're implementing in our plants
to make sure that that job is now done,
a combination of AI plus visual inspection.
So some really neat applications there,
and I've seen many of those around the show, actually.
<v ->Fantastic. Okay, so let's kind of shift over to consumers.</v>
So, Jeff, maybe we start with you.
Can you share some examples of how AI
and innovation are benefiting consumers?
<v ->You see it all over the place nowadays</v>
in vehicles, or even in the,
in the process of how people acquire a vehicle,
get it, or engage with information about the vehicle.
The fact that there's chatbots,
the fact that in a car now,
you can ask questions of the car
that relate to something you're trying to achieve.
We were talking earlier,
and there's a lot of evidence of this.
Used to be you go in and you say
you know, "Let's find a pizza place."
Or, you know, use a search engine,
or you use your phone to find this pizza place.
Now you can say to the car,
"Find me the best deep crust pizza place
within five miles of my house
that doesn't cost more than $20 a pie."
And so you can get very more granular and specific
with what information is being asked,
let's say in the vehicle,
and how it can help you to get to
that customer satisfaction that's so important.
So AI can really drive customer satisfaction
in ways that didn't exist in the past.
<v ->If you think about automated driving functions</v>
that customize vehicle behavior
to what your needs and safety, depending on weather,
depending on the road you're driving in,
depending on speed, et cetera, et cetera,
it gives the end user the personalization
of driving style to the safety,
comfort, and speed that they need.
So it's not directly related to consumer or consuming,
but the usage of the vehicle is becoming
much more relevant based on who you are.
And also the development of functions becomes much faster,
and the deployment of those functions in the field
become possible through over the air updates on one hand,
but also the fast development cycles in ADAS,
and enabled by the right computing power in the vehicle.
<v ->And to build on that a little bit,</v>
this idea of the safety system, you know,
I mentioned before, we focus on entertainment systems.
But there's actually a linkage
that can help improve customer satisfaction.
We look at solutions that maybe
with cameras in the car for safety,
you can determine if someone's
engaging with the content that's
a video or audio that's playing whether they like it or not,
or whether they're distracted.
And you might turn down the music if you will,
or switch the music based on
the person may be agitated when they're driving.
So the safety systems and the entertainment systems
can play together in ways that didn't exist in the past,
that are both creating a safer environment and a richer,
immersive entertainment environment for the consumer.
<v ->So, Nielsen IQ and GFK Automotive Research</v>
shows that when people are choosing their next new vehicle,
safety is one of the top reasons.
And you know, we find that there are certain features,
that, you know, when we ask people,
"Hey, what type of features
do you want in your next vehicle?"
And we give the whole list of features across the vehicle,
safety features always float to the top.
So, you know, with that in mind,
I'm wondering if maybe Fedra, we start with you,
if you could share some innovations,
some safety feature innovations,
that you know consumers can really benefit from.
<v ->Right. So if you come to the Bosch booth,</v>
you'll be able to look at a couple of demos in this field.
Like I was saying, advanced driver assistance
is a core part of safety,
from your lane departure functionality
to your parking functionality,
to in-vehicle sensing that determines
if you are tired or not,
or distracted looking at your phone.
So you will be able to see a number of
individual functions that advance safety.
I remind you all that Bosch is
an invented for life company,
and in this spirit of invented for life,
we use AI, safe AI, ethical AI
to advance driver assistance functions
and driving in general,
making it safer for consumers.
<v ->Maybe I could share a couple examples of</v>
where we've done some of the work on this is,
and in particular on just breaking.
In 2029, NHTSA's coming out with a new
automated emergency break requirements,
and there's a lot of opinion out there on it.
Can we meet it? Can we meet it?
Two sides of the problem.
There's a perception side, there's the action side.
A lot of our work is on the action side,
and knowing explicitly, you know,
the capability real-time of,
again, that connection to the ground, the tire,
and is this vehicle really gonna be able to stop?
And then two things dictate that.
Number one is the condition of the tire,
because based on what kind of tire you have,
it has different properties in and of itself.
The second thing is you integrate that
with something around the road.
And at dry conditions,
maybe your friction is 0.8,
but it drops significantly for snow.
We are talking about,
all of us are having snow when we go home.
Too bad we can't stay,
but the bottom line is then you know,
well how much sooner do I have to start applying breaks?
Now a consumer doesn't think about that,
but there's a huge consumer benefit
because people are putting together
systems who will take care of that.
A similar one we talked about,
we introduced last year,
and we're taking it around to many
of the OEMs is on hydroplaning.
And again, you don't think about it,
you're going down the highway,
and all of a sudden you come upon a puddle,
deep puddle, and you completely lose contact,
and at that point no control of your vehicle.
And there was actually a connection into the infotainment,
which is simply, "Hey, we're detecting you're
starting to lose some of that contact area."
And you could pass it at least through a warning
through the infotainment saying,
"You might wanna slow down."
And the second way is through people like Bosch
where they actually take control,
and they'll slow you down.
And so these are huge saviors
and things for people,
hopefully avoiding collisions, accidents.
The consumer isn't maybe asking for that explicitly,
but they're asking to be safer.
They're asking to avoid collisions.
And I think there's again, they're huge opportunities.
And it's not for one of us to solve,
it's how we work together to bring these,
bring these to market.
<v ->And for us at 3M, you know,</v>
some of the ways that we add innovation to the vehicle
around the notion of safety may not be,
you know, quite as obvious,
but you know, as Fedra and her teams,
and other companies are focused on bringing
bigger compute, or with compute centralization to vehicles,
that suddenly creates new problems around
thermal management and power management.
As you're advancing and bringing more sensors,
we have to think about the materials
that go into the sensors and the sensor properties
with like optical films.
For example, or the conductives
and all of the electronics components.
So for us at 3M, you know,
deeply understanding that those performance requirements
as vehicle technology itself is shifting,
we have to stay very much to your point,
very, you know, very collaborative engineering
to really bring that through,
and make sure the material properties
are supporting whatever requirements
of the vehicle as well.
<v ->Okay, so this is a little bit of a loaded question,</v>
but it wouldn't be an automotive discussion topic
if we didn't bring up Evs.
So we know that demand for Evs is leveling off.
I'm gonna ask the panel if you think
that either AI or AR,
or other innovations could possibly
improve demand for EVs.
And Jeff, I'll start with you.
<v ->Sure. I think the biggest application</v>
where AI can help is,
the number one issue remains range anxiety, right?
So there's certain parts of the country
there's charging stations everywhere,
and people have the cars,
and they know where the stations are and everything.
But then really if you look across
the entire United States,
there's vast stretches where no idea,
there just aren't charging stations,
or they're few and far between.
And so the ability of AI to not just
point out where the charging station is,
but what the line is at the station,
is it in a safe area?
Is it, is it well secure?
What else is around?
Is there any shopping around?
All that information would be
really beneficial for that next level
of consumer who worries about that.
So at the end of the day,
you're gonna have range anxiety
that's gonna vary across the population
to the point of some people never wanting to get an EV.
But we're now past, let's say those initial adopters,
and that next wave,
they're gonna have to have a reason
that makes them comfortable
with not having to worry about
where they charge their car,
and it becomes more fabric of how they,
you know, how they look at the vehicle and say,
"That's not gonna be a problem."
And AI can definitely help with that.
<v ->I would build on what you're saying,</v>
adding that, like another couple of use cases
where AI can really help.
One is on the range prediction,
so upstream reduction of that anxiety that you discussed.
And the other piece or end of the lifecycle
is on the used car,
which is a very big problem,
is residual values of EVs.
They are very low.
Nobody wants to buy an EV
because you can't resell it.
So AI can help creating models
that will give the used car customer
a better view on what vehicle they are buying,
and with that, fostering or motivating
an increase in residual values that will
hopefully motivate the market and increase sales.
So those are a couple of use cases
on prediction, range management,
and then the certificate in the
second end the car market.
<v ->Great, thank you.</v>
So, still focusing on consumers,
I'd like to ask the panel,
how do you see AI helping consumers
with their vehicle experience,
and their research process as well?
So, maybe Jeff, we start with you.
<v ->So from the research perspective,</v>
I think it can help a lot.
A lot of times when people go out,
and they try to filter through all the information
that's out there to make a choice on a vehicle,
it's incredibly difficult.
And so being able to synthesize all that information,
and come up with different points of view online,
or even at a a series of dealerships,
I think would be essential to giving
people confidence that they truly understand
the difference between vehicles,
and help them to clarify why
they want one vehicle over the other.
And I think that can actually benefit
both the dealers, and the auto industry and the consumer.
You have less people buying for the wrong reasons,
for lack of better terms,
and it's a much more educated consumer experience.
And I think that particularly,
if you get into an environment where you hear,
like you think of a Tesla
whether there's in a dealership network,
it's one thing in the traditional sense
when someone goes into a dealer,
but if this is not gonna be done
through a dealer network for some
of the car companies going forward,
then that would be essential,
that'd be essential to help them
to determine what and where, and when to buy.
<v ->So we have a very large retail footprint,</v>
and I will just tell you with a,
how many of you go walk in, are thinking about,
"Man, I'm excited to go buy my next set of tires."
We don't, we don't find a lot of those.
It tends to be a bit of a nuisance purchase
except for if you're really
into high performance or off-roading.
And in fact people,
and I think a good example,
to the point made here is,
how do you make people feel like
they're not victims when they're walking in there?
Because it's very hard to be equipped
with the information you need
and make the right selection.
Your size of tire on your car,
there may be 50 different options.
And that's just from us.
And so how do you know what to pick?
And so I think,
I think those are huge applications to,
to give tools to users
who don't engage in a purchase process often.
Boy quickly that they feel like they have
some good information and they're not just
at the will of maybe who's across the counter,
who might just be pushing,
who they got a good incentive from this month,
or they got a whole lot of 'em in the back, right?
And so I think those types of applications that'll come,
are gonna be really valuable.
And if you could put 'em out there,
it's not something you have to charge for.
It just makes people wanna engage
with your product in a more positive way.
<v ->Yeah, I love your point on customer choice.</v>
I think that's super, you know,
giving customers choice is such a powerful
benefit that we can offer to customers.
When I think of AI in vehicles,
I think one of the things that gets me most excited,
is from the perspective of sometimes
I don't even think about
what I'm using in my vehicle,
or of all the technology capabilities at my disposal.
What am I using and what am I not.
I may think I know.
I may think this feature might be important,
but maybe I'm actually not using it.
So as vehicles get smarter,
the ability to harness those insights,
and tell me more about me that I may not even realize,
and how should that feed into that next buying cycle?
There may be a vehicle that's more tailored
and better suited for me than I,
than I would just even think about.
So really bridging actual usage to
me as a consumer and how I do what I do.
You know, tell me what I don't know,
just the power of what AI can do there.
<v ->Excellent. Thank you. Great, great points.</v>
If only we could apply that to mattress shopping.
Okay, so you know, what we've learned today
is that AI plays a key role in, you know,
really streamlining the manufacturing
and product development process.
You know, we heard, you know, that there are,
there's a great opportunity to really
reduce the length of that process,
and bringing that back to consumers,
you know, potentially we could see
new vehicles or new features
come to market much quicker,
reducing the overall product development time-frame.
From a consumer perspective, obviously,
you know, the automotive industry doesn't really,
from an OEM perspective tout AI in their vehicles
as much as some of the consumer brands do.
Walking around the central hall yesterday,
I saw some of the consumer brands positioning AI as
affectionate intelligence,
using the words empathy and care,
and really trying to humanize it.
I think the industry, you know,
is really going into more of a
technology advanced feature perspective,
which there's a huge pull from consumers
for the latest and greatest features in their vehicles.
So, you know, different industries,
different ways of positioning it.
But we've heard how AI can also benefit consumers,
and you know, even tying in the collaboration
across all four of the companies
in terms of how they need to work together
to bring all this technology to life in a new vehicle.
So, you know, with that,
I'd like to ask each of the panelists to just
kind of provide some final closing thoughts on AI for us,
and then we'll move into questions and answers.
So, I guess, Wendy, if I can start with you.
<v ->Of course. Thought I had a minute to think about this one.</v>
You know, I had a interesting conversation
with someone earlier today, and they were kind of,
"What was your thoughts of this show this year?"
And I think this is the 15th year I've coming to CES.
It's been a long time.
But I think what really resonates with me constantly,
is the speed of innovation.
None of us can do it alone.
We see over and over again how imperative, how just,
you know, the sense of urgency around innovation,
the importance of collaboration.
We can't do this alone,
but just unlimited possibilities.
You go through all the different halls,
all the end industries,
what I can take and, I've done in this industry,
we can apply over here.
Just the possibilities are unlimited.
And with that in mind,
how do you really stay laser focused
on the customer and what your mission is,
and really triangulating them together.
That's a lot to think through.
That's a lot to really make sure
you're focused on the right thing
for your customers and your business.
But innovation, speed, collaboration,
no matter what you do, that sits at the core.
And that's exciting.
<v ->I think that ultimately the consumer</v>
will benefit from all this AI.
You know, we just gave examples of a buying process.
I know in our world of entertainment,
the idea is we can provide a great new experience
that you didn't even know you could have out there
because AI is working with all the content available
to deliver it in a way,
and introduce you to maybe sources, or content,
or artists that you didn't even know existed,
yet really delight you.
And, so that idea of you're getting things
you didn't even know were out there,
the possibilities are endless so to speak.
I think the consumers will really see that
as a great benefit going forward.
<v ->Chris?</v>
<v ->Well I've been coming</v>
now just only seven years,
but what I'd say is, you know,
some of the things that we saw then
are still the same ones I see now.
The only difference I think is the progress continues.
And I think we all have to just
keep thinking that in particular,
you know, our big focus,
and a lot of things I talked about
are different levels of how
autonomy is continuing to come,
and how that'll provide safety.
Every year, I'm encouraged by the progress.
It hasn't been a linear progress.
Maybe, but, and it hasn't been as soon
as everybody thought it would might be,
but it's definitely coming.
And I think if you, if you're open to that,
and as you walk around,
you can also feel it, feel it coming.
So, so really excited about
how that'll pan out and keep coming.
<v ->Well CES inspires me beyond technology.</v>
I don't know how many years it has been,
but the fact that I see people from
all over the world sitting in this room
inspires me beyond the technology,
that whatever is happening outside,
whatever decoupling of regions,
of technology decoupling of who owns what and where,
that this week is able to bring
people from all over the world
that share a glass of wine,
a beer, or just a chat, and that like Wendy said,
"Nobody can do it alone."
So I would encourage all of you
to at least get to know each other,
and advance the cause of mobility
because it is core to our advancement as a species.
Finding ways to sustainably move and share knowledge.
So that is what I always bring when I go back,
is the faces and the passports of people
that come from all over the world to speak.
And hopefully what happens in Vegas
in some cases doesn't stay in Vegas,
and that we leverage globally
the exchanges we have here.
<v ->Thank you. Well said.</v>
We do have time for a couple of questions.
Are there any questions?
The young lady right there in the middle.
Yes. Yeah.
So the question was, autonomous motor homes.
There is a display out there from her company.
So does anyone here kind of see the potential,
the possibilities for driverless motor homes?
<v ->I will comment at a higher level,</v>
that if you walk around the West Hall,
what's amazing change over the last couple years
is all the autonomy applied to
the industrial side of the industry.
You see dump trucks, you see,
you see combines and all that other equipment
that traditionally you said,
well there's some guy back there
running that tractor or whatever,
and you don't need that anymore.
So at that level you would assume all mobility,
or all vehicles will ultimately have a driverless option.
<v ->Yeah, I agree a hundred percent.</v>
Maybe I'll give a very personal endorsement for this is,
my brother-in-law went out
and bought a 45 foot motor home,
and as much as they love it,
they're scared to death take it outta the garage
because driving it is intimidating.
And so this could be an extremely
interesting case for autonomy actually,
when you think about making the driving experience
so that you can then take advantage of everything else.
I don't think the joy of it is driving it.
The joy of it is when you get it where it wants to be.
So boy that sounds like a pretty darn good use case.
So, definitely go after that one.
<v ->Okay, we have a little over a minute left.</v>
Any other questions? Yes?
<v Participant>You made a comment about how can we increase</v>
the demand for electric vehicles,
how, actually I did a, I did a quick search.
And year-over-year,
auto sales have gone up like 29%
The Ford Mustang Marquee sold more than (indistinct).
So, in spite of the data,
I want to look a little bit further and deeper,
because that's OEM sales went up .09%,
dealer sales are actually having trouble.
<v ->Right. Correct.</v>
<v ->For Evs (indistinct).</v>
<v ->Yes, definitely there's,</v>
there's still, consumers are still hesitant,
and so it's really how do we build demand for EVs?
Right. Yes, I know.
The Marquee outsold the Mustang,
but overall we're seeing from our study that,
and we survey a quarter million new vehicle
and tenders a year that we're not seeing
a long-term uptick in EV demand.
Any other questions?
Or Fedra, do you wanna add to that?
<v ->No, I was just saying,</v>
not contradicting what you're saying,
we see a lot of delays in vehicle introductions from OEMs,
and that is one of the manifestations
of that flattening out.
Of course new technology growth
is still ongoing in double digit.
Very far from the predictions though.
<v ->Okay. And we are at our time.</v>
Thank you very much for attending.
I believe there is a survey that you can fill out
to let us know if you enjoyed this session,
and I hope you enjoy the rest of your stay here at CES.
Thank you.