<v ->Well, hey, good afternoon everybody.</v>
Thank you for making the time.
I think, if you're here at CES
on a Thursday afternoon at three o'clock,
you're a survivor,
and perhaps that's a good parallel for
a lot of the autonomous vehicle companies
that are not only surviving now in this space,
but flourishing.
So with that quick prelude,
I'll introduce myself.
I'm Pete Bigelow, senior reporter
at Automotive News in Detroit
where I cover the future of transportation overall
and autonomous vehicles in particular.
And I host the "Shift" mobility podcast.
Why don't we do some quick introductions here.
I'll ask you to introduce yourselves,
and then we'll get rolling.
So Selika, maybe we'll start on your end
and come back down this way.
<v ->Who am I?</v>
Good afternoon, everyone.
I have been
regulating, crafting policy, teaching, writing,
and speaking about autonomous vehicles for over 15 years.
I say that if anyone in this room
is bullish on the future of autonomy,
checkmate, I'm more bullish.
That's who I am.
<v ->Hi, everyone. Good afternoon.</v>
So my name is Maria Alonso,
and I lead our autonomous systems portfolio
at the World Economic Forum.
For those of you who may not know the World Economic Forum,
we are the international organization
for public private collaboration,
and we try to tackle the key challenges that the world has,
and autonomous vehicles is one of them.
<v ->Good afternoon.</v>
My name is Aine Denari,
and I work with Brunswick Corporation,
which is not bowling and billiards
as most people probably think,
but in fact we are today mostly into recreational marine.
So boats rather than cars,
but a lot of similar parallels.
There I lead one of our divisions, Navico Group,
and I'm also the chief technology officer for the company.
Prior to joining the recreational marine space,
I actually ran an ADAS business
for an automotive tier one supplier, ZF.
So a lot of interesting parallels between
what we did in auto versus now what we do in marine.
<v ->And I'm Johann Jungwirth, just JJ, my initials.</v>
And I'm the EVP for AV at Mobileye, an Israeli company.
And we basically deliver with our partners,
with the automotive manufacturers and brands
full autonomous solutions.
Everything from, level 2++ to level 3, level 4,
and happy to be here.
<v ->All right. Thank you, all.</v>
The premise of this panel I think is that
autonomy or automation, and we can quibble about
the differences between those two things in a little bit,
but that it's finally here.
So, JJ, I'm gonna start with you.
In what way is automation here
and then what's kind of
the state of the industry here in early 2025?
<v ->So, basically, the future is already here.</v>
You just need to look at the right place.
If you travel to San Francisco or to Phoenix, Arizona,
you arrive there at the airport,
you can actually already order an Uber and Waymo,
and they're also partnering with Uber, partially,
to actually have an autonomous ride.
So basically level four,
as it's being called based on SAE levels, is here.
You can take the app, order a vehicle, get in.
There's no one behind the steering wheel,
and that's quite amazing.
How many people have already taken a ride
in a full self-driving vehicle
without anyone behind the steering wheel?
Nice.
So it's about half, maybe a little less.
For all of you which didn't have the hand up,
please ride out.
It's interesting how quickly actually people
trust the technology once they get inside,
similar to riding a bus, being on a plane.
And so that's basically the full autonomy level four space.
We call our product Mobileye Drive,
and we are working with several partners.
For example, Volkswagen with the ID Buzz.
It's here at our booth.
If you go downstairs to booth 4,700,
you can see a four seater, VW ID Buzz,
full self-driving level four,
and a haul-on mover.
The hold on mover is a 10 to 12-people shuttle.
And this is also something interesting that
there will be different form factors,
different use cases, ride-hailing, ride-pooling,
ride-sharing, and so on.
And then on the automation side,
basically, you have, on the one hand, Tesla FSD
or our mobilize supervision product in several brands,
about 300,000 vehicles now out there,
where it's a hands off product.
And Tesla FSD,
I actually rented such a vehicle while I'm here,
and you can basically just type in a destination.
The vehicle drives you from A to B.
The same with our mobilized supervision product,
and the difference is that you have to be engaged.
You need to have eyes on the road.
<v ->Perhaps in similar fashion,</v>
is that what's going on in the recreational marine space?
And there's some interesting parallels you mentioned.
So good to hear about that.
<v ->So definitely interesting parallels,</v>
also quite a few differences as you would imagine.
The recreational marine space from a size and scale
is obviously very significantly different to automotive.
And really it is, by definition, something that people do
in their leisure time and they enjoy driving about.
And so the use cases and the consumer needs
are a little bit different.
People enjoy being out in the water.
They enjoy driving their boat.
What they don't enjoy, however,
is things like docking a boat or undocking a boat.
And so as we had thought through what are
the biggest pain points and the biggest consumer needs,
it's really been focused on those aspects,
docking and undoing,
as well as some of those other solutions.
There's a variety of,
I'll call them advanced driver assist functionality
that has been around in the space for a time
with things like Joystick and Skyhook,
and autopilot and stuff like that,
but the fully autonomous docking and undocking
is relatively new,
and there's definitely differences in terms of
the sensors that are being used
in terms of the degrees of freedom that a boat has,
six degrees of freedom,
no solid surface like a road,
no lane markings,
people coming from every different direction.
So a lot of differences,
but a lot of the core technologies
can be used and adapted for the recreational marine space.
And as I say, it's really around
making the experience less stressful and more enjoyable
so that we can get the consumers out there on the water
enjoying their time a little more.
<v ->Maria and Selika, we have the industry perspective here.</v>
From your perspective, how's 2025 looking?
Does this shape up as a year
to be optimistic about the future of
automation and autonomy?
<v ->I would say I really agree with what JJ was saying.</v>
We've got it here,
and that's also a little bit what the title of the panel,
autonomy is here.
Other than what JJ was saying regarding the road taxes,
I would add other use cases where we already today
see a lot of autonomy,
and that would be in enclosed spaces.
So when we think about mining, construction,
some of these logistics facilities
which also have quite some autonomy in the vehicles,
we should not forget those use cases
because, at the end of the day,
they're the most suitable for autonomy,
and that's where we already today see
higher and higher levels of autonomy.
The other use case that has not been mentioned,
and I think it's important to mention
is when we think about tracking.
And here in the US, it's expected that in 2025,
it will be a very relevant year
for taking that driver outside of the vehicle
and starting with those trucking use cases,
which also have quite some societal value
when we think that there are a lot of truck drivers
that lose their lives on the road.
It's very long, very tedious
hours behind the steering wheel.
And also when we think about their families,
it's very hard to be going for those
that are doing long haul
to be weeks and weeks away from their beloved ones.
So I think those are use cases we should not forget
when we think about 2025 from the power of vehicle autonomy.
<v ->And, Selika, I know we've talked a bit about</v>
some of the optimism,
but it comes with an asterisk of some sort.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
I think there needs to be a little perspective
when we talk about the future,
sort of where are we coming from.
In 2010, when I was trying to create
a proving ground in New Jersey
as the chief operating officer
of the state's Motor Vehicle Commission,
I couldn't get buy-in from the governor
because their policy people felt it was a detriment
to higher office for any politician
to allow widespread use
of autonomous vehicles on the roadway.
In 2016, when I was the senior advisor
at Federal Motor Carrier in US DOT,
we were pulling teeth even to get the trucking industry
to accept ADAS.
So a perspective of where we were,
today, it is different.
I can get in Waymo.
I can get in lots of other autonomous vehicle companies
that are testing across the country.
To JJ's point, we have a company
that if they wanna say they're winning now,
150,000 rides, paid rides every week in America.
It does feel sort of like the future is here,
but I have to say absolutely asterisk.
There are communities that don't have that opportunity.
There's infrastructure that doesn't allow you
to move in those capacities.
We have regulation and policies
because we have this patchwork of legislation across America
that makes some states wide open,
and what I've always referred to as the Wild West,
and others that are,
"I'm not so sure I want you to try this."
From a trucking perspective,
having been the director of field for United States
for the movement of all large trucks and buses,
absolutely, it makes sense that if, at any place,
we allow full autonomy is in the movement of our goods.
We don't have enough truck drivers.
we need to reduce the expense
of moving our freight across America.
But again, the infrastructure
doesn't always exist in every place
to make that possible
and regulation is an impediment to it.
So future is here, but a little bit asterisk,
<v ->This is a perfect time to ask.</v>
I think regulation has been viewed as an impediment,
but maybe one of the reasons we see optimism today
is because President-elect Musk
is going to bring in lots of tailwinds.
So, on a serious note,
what's expected here in the next four years
from a regulatory perspective and what's needed too?
Maria, can you give us a 30,000 foot view on that?
<v ->So I would say when we're thinking about</v>
the upcoming administration.
We're hearing that vehicle autonomy
is going to be pretty much something
that will be more and more positively perceived.
One thing that we need to do
is what we were talking now about,
which is that platform of regulations.
It doesn't help anyone.
It doesn't help the companies trying to
deploy these vehicles,
but it doesn't help the regulators either.
So municipalities, cities, states,
they don't really have the capabilities.
How should they be able to regulate in individual cases?
So it's not just that we think
it's because of the private sector goods.
No, it's for the public sector too.
But one thing that we should keep in mind
as these federal regulations seem to be coming
in the coming months or in the coming years in this,
in these four years at least,
is that we need to ensure that safety is still guaranteed.
So we should not compromise on safety.
And this is something that should be very important
as the new governments
puts more and more emphasis on vehicle autonomy,
yes, to federal regulations,
but how to make sure that we are
not compromising on safety.
If we compromise on safety,
the public will not trust and for good reasons,
so we need to avoid that.
<v ->I was curious how regulation</v>
plays into the idea of public trust.
And from an industry perspective,
how do you think about building
customer trust, public trust?
<v ->So, I mean looking at Europe for example,</v>
because there some regulation does exist
and Germany actually was I think one of the first countries
a few years ago to have an AV law,
basically an act out there,
and then followed by a regulation,
and very clearly described in terms of
meeting at least human driver safety level.
Now they left that open,
how to prove that if you take mean time between crashes,
mean time between failures,
and mean time between incidents,
human drivers are somewhere in the
500,000 miles range or so,
and then depends on now urban versus highway
and other areas.
And it's interesting, but I think this is something
basically which is a minimum requirement,
and then also requirement for technical
tele assist operation center,
that there are some operators
which can help the vehicle out
in case it can no longer
let's say continue on the road
being it because traffic lights are out
and the intersection is directed by a police officer or so,
and maybe that's not let's say clear yet
how to exactly interpret let's say
the movements by hand or so.
So there are certain situations, and we know this today.
I mean we see it with Waymo, with others
that basically having a tele assist center human operators,
this is a good thing to have.
And I think having let's say topics like these
clearly in the regulation,
then it's also a framework
that everyone has to follow basically these rules,
and making sure that the operation is set up
and it's not voluntary,
and some operators do, some do not.
<v ->Aine, what's that look like</v>
in the recreational marine space?
So interesting, but it sounds very familiar.
<v ->Yeah, certainly a little different in recreational marine</v>
in terms of level of regulation.
We do of course have Coast Guard regulations.
They tend to apply to things like flotation
and that kind of thing.
We also have those some pretty good
involved standards committees
that are really working to understand
what the future of the technology can be
and how we can implement it safely.
To your point, it's really important
that even though something like ISO 26262
is not regulated in the marine space,
we absolutely have to be sure that
everything that we do is done safely,
and we have the appropriate SOTOF
as well as functional safety.
I would say one other thing
in terms of kind of building
that public trust that you mentioned
would really be around ensuring that the customers know
that they can rely on the company
that's delivering the solutions,
and that they understand the validation,
and they can visualize what's actually happening
in a marine vessel.
So something like visualizing what is actually happening
is probably more important in marine
to kinda build that trust
and help the consumers know that they can feel safe
to hand off control of the vessel to the boat itself,
instead of the operator.
<v ->Can I just build on that a little bit?</v>
I have this phrase.
I'm sure other people have used it before,
politics is who's driving the vehicle,
and policy or regulation is the map
that you use to go where you wanna go.
President Trump is the politics.
He might be driving.
But President Musk is in charge of the map,
but he's writing the map while they're in the car driving.
That's literally how this policy will move.
The point of it is,
as long as he's drawing it
in a way that makes the driver happy, we're all good.
But at any point the driver doesn't like the drawing
and wants to take their own direction,
that's what will happen.
We can have all the regulation mindedness that we want,
but we have a very short window
from a legislative standpoint to get things done.
Technically, two years until if passed this prologue,
we will no longer have a Republican Congress.
So what happens in this finite period of time?
And I can tell you as someone who was
drafting regulation in the same scenario eight years ago,
the Trump Administration is wiser for the experience.
We probably won't have long drawn out rulemaking processes.
We will likely lead by executive orders
and stronger policy
and stronger guidance that's being written now.
They have so little time to get done.
If anybody knows what rule making's like
in the federal government, it's years of comments,
and they are on the road going around
and speaking to people in different communities
to see what they think.
You'll never get anything done like that,
and Musk doesn't have the temperament to wait that long.
So other things will have to happen in this timeframe,
which means he's gonna be given the latitude to just do it
and ask for forgiveness later.
<v ->I'm curious, from a industry perspective,</v>
and maybe, Maria, you can chime in here or not,
but
what happens in the government
is part of the equation here,
but I think as we saw with cruise,
it's not the only part of the equation.
And when you think about public trust
and what's really happening in the real world,
we have this optimism yet perhaps it's fragile,
and that's one thing learned from the cruise crash.
I'm curious how you see
safety playing into this discussion
of building trust and transparency.
<v ->I would say there are two things when it comes to safety.</v>
One of them is perceived safety,
which is the one that people believe,
how people believe that the cars are operating,
and the other one is real safety.
So at the end of the day,
we first need to make sure that we do offer safety,
and we need to prove it,
and that will be the thing that will change
and will make that perceived safety a reality.
And I would say this is the same as with any relationship.
This time is a relationship between a vehicle and a human,
but when we are having relationships between all of us,
we need to prove that we can trust the other person.
So we need to first prove that it's really safer
or as safe as a human at the very least.
And that reality will be the cornerstone
to really make sure that we are
having that perceived safety
also aligned with that real safety.
<v ->I feel like 10 years ago we would start talking about</v>
the trolley problem right here,
but the discussion has matured on safety
and yet there's still a question as to,
what is safety?
How safe is safe enough?
What are the right ways to think about that?
JJ, how has that discussion evolved?
<v ->I mean, if you think about,</v>
let's say today's state of the art,
especially also from a sensors' perspective.
You have surround cameras.
You have surround imaging radars, radar technology,
also very proven technology.
And we have developed actually some very specific
imaging radars with very high resolution
which basically do not require specific sensor cleaning.
They don't have any moving parts,
they're very robust.
And like the front imaging radar, 1,536 virtual channels.
The sides and the rear imaging radars, 384 virtual channel.
So you get a very rich point cloud.
So you have surround CV, or computer vision,
you have surround imaging radars.
And then in addition, you have the LiDAR belt
with long range and short range ,
and just making sure that basically
you have all of these sensor modalities,
and we believe that redundancy is a key element.
We have developed a concept, we call it PGF,
meaning primary, guardian, and fallback.
So you have always the primary and the fallback,
and then the guardian looking at kind of two out of three
or different, let's say, ways of deciding,
okay, which sensors, which modalities,
what can you trust in terms of the decision making?
And so these this triple redundancy
and different layers of modalities,
I think, just from a technology perspective,
we probably have some engineers, some technologists here
interested in that side to make sure.
And also here, let's say I talked about
state of the art or what is standard.
I think it would be good if similar...
I mean I look at Waymo.
Waymo and us, we have very similar sensor setups,
and technologies, and so on that we don't have,
let's say, technologies out there which maybe tried.
Maybe it was just one modality or so.
<v ->How does safety evolve on your end?</v>
<v ->Yeah, no, I mean, it's a great point.</v>
Obviously, it's a slightly different circumstance.
I think part of it is around the education piece.
So you talked about the holistic nature of
the capabilities of the sensor
the redundancy of the system.
So I think helping our consumers understand
that level of technical capability is important.
I think, in the recreational marine space,
our advantage from all the progress
that automotive and other industries have made
so that consumers are starting
to feel a little bit more comfortable
with these types of solutions
and knowing that the technology exists,
and that it is okay to
take your eyes off and your hands off.
So that's another aspect too.
I will also say in the recreational marine space,
we're starting with these use cases
that are the biggest pain points of docking and undocking.
Those are...
By definition, docking is a controlled collision.
So what we are doing is it's a low speed maneuver,
It's short distances and so it's a space where
it's relatively easy to get the consumer
to feel like it is safe
because it is relatively low speed,
it is relatively short distance.
And so with all of the learnings
that they've gotten from other industries
and understanding of the capabilities,
the visualization of what's going on,
I think all of those things really play
into helping the consumer really feel like it is safe.
<v ->Maria, is there a parallel there</v>
with self-parking in the driving space,
and how have consumers
adapted, adopted use of self-parking, or not yet?
<v ->I think, at least for me,</v>
parking is the worst part of driving.
And I believe that among all of us in the room,
I'm not the only one.
But so we do have already today what, in my view,
because I hate parking,
is the best use case when it comes to some
automated technologies in the vehicles.
One thing which we need to still take into account is that
some people do not use those parking capabilities,
and it may be because they don't understand
how they're being used.
And I think this is where
making sure that we've got very good HMI,
very good interaction between the vehicle and the driver
is paramount to leverage already today
those parking capabilities in our cars.
And also to prepare ourselves to
realize that the car does much more than just...
It's just much more than an engine.
It's really helping us do many more things.
It's a good way of understanding
that the car does much more
even if the trust issue for me is completely different
because then there's no speed.
And even if you collide with something,
it's horrible for the car.
So be well insured if you don't trust it,
but it's going to work well.
So in that sense, for the trust issue,
you don't fear that possibility of something happening.
But from the functionality perspective,
I think it's very important.
<v ->I just wanna perhaps put in a little reprimand</v>
to the industry.
It's really, really hard for the customer,
the driver who wants to sit in the backseat now
to take us seriously when one company says,
"You only need a camera.
Cameras are good enough."
Another company's gonna say,
I need a suite of sensors.
I'm gonna give you another example.
There are certain airlines that we consider budget airlines.
We're not so sure about their maintenance,
and some of us won't take certain airlines
'cause we just don't feel as comfortable
getting in those machines.
It will be the same with autonomous vehicles.
If we don't get to a point where, as a society,
we can have some standard level of this apple will feed you,
this vehicle will get you from point A to point B,
and that you don't say one thing is okay,
and then that person says one thing is okay.
And we may be technologists
and have a real understanding of the capability,
but the person who just wants
to get their kid to the soccer field,
they don't have that understanding.
They're relying on us,
and we're saying different things
that are different sides of our mouths as an industry.
The airline industry, even as a mobility space
polices themselves.
Autonomy at some point has to police themselves
if we wanna have greater consumer comfort
in the ability to safely move.
<v ->If I could play devil's advocate a little bit,</v>
I would say there was a crash with Uber in 2018,
and that was the end of the Uber self-driving program
for all intents and purposes.
We have a crash with Cruise
that ends Cruise for all intents and purposes.
So in effect, is the industry policing itself at this point?
<v ->That's really a financial decision at that point, right?</v>
We have had, if we think...
I'm in my 50s.
We have a long enough lead time looking at aviation
to say when we weren't as policing as we should,
airlines struggled.
They lost billions of dollars.
Some of them went out of business.
And the more they got on top of each other
in terms of maintenance,
in terms of standards,
consolidation,
we're better off despite what's happened lately.
We're still better off for it in terms of aviation.
We're gonna have to get there in autonomy as well.
<v ->I wanna take it back 'cause I know our time</v>
is starting to run a little low.
I wanted to address artificial intelligence advances
in this automated space.
And I'm curious,
have the rapid advances we've seen
in the last 2, 2 1/2 years
improved safety, improved capabilities?
Have those led us to this moment
where now we're seeing proliferation
of self-driving, automated-driving technologies?
<v ->Yeah, so I can start with this.</v>
Certainly.
I mean AI is here and it's here to stay,
and I have to say it's a combination of
compute capabilities, looking at the SOCs of today
with all the hardware accelerations,
with transformers, and so on.
So this is definitely a blessing,
and there are different modes
and let's say types of AI.
We have built our technology on a compound AI system,
meaning there are bits and pieces which are end-to-end AI,
and also combining it with redundancy.
So that means even within vision,
there are, let's say, geometry-based, appearance-based,
and different, let's say, modes and modalities,
and then augmented with an end-to-end AI model.
Also, for example, fusion and fusing
of map and map list, basically,
prioritizing between what you have from the map
and what you see in reality
if there's a new construction
which just showed up and it's not in the map,
still making the right decisions and so on.
So it's actually great to have these AI models
with good training,
and also if you think about
just sign recognition, landmarks recognition, other things,
this is all already now over the years completely moved to
AI-based technologies based on training data,
and this is just the standard today.
<v ->I mean similar in the marine space,</v>
we're using all the same technologies, all the same things,
both in terms of helping us to drive
product development faster and more efficiently,
using synthetic data,
a lot more use of simulation,
as well as in the product itself,
using it for path planning and various different things.
So, definitely really helpful
both in product development and the product itself,
and I'll even say in the broader consumer experience
in terms of things like predictive maintenance
once the vessel or the vehicle is in the field
in terms of better serviceability,
better engagement with a dealer or whoever it is.
So really throughout the entire,
every touch point of a vessel or a vehicle ownership,
AI is playing a very significant and fastly growing role.
<v ->Back to this idea of trust,</v>
how do you communicate
the performance and limitations of AI,
not just to consumers,
but to the stakeholders that we've mentioned before
to government city transportation planners
or the Coast Guard in your case?
How do you really inform that audience
as a leader in the technology?
<v ->Yeah, I think, for us, it's around kind of</v>
communicating what we're using and why we're doing it.
And so, for example,
as I think about maybe training data as an example,
we can explain to the Coast Guard, or ABYC, or whoever it is
that this is the amount of real world
and so we'll use kind of
50,000 hours was roughly an equivalent of a million miles
of driving as kind of our real world
numbers that we'll use for any kind of
new significant technology we roll out.
But then we're able to explain to them that
all of these additional use cases
we can gather via simulation
that might be really hard for us to find.
And so we're able to explain to these regulatory authorities
how the end product is a lot safer
because of the use of AI in our development processes.
<v ->Does anyone in the audience have a question or two?</v>
We might take a question at some point here,
but while you mull that over real quick,
Maria, I'm curious.
We see Waymo deployed on big picture in San Francisco,
Phoenix, Los Angeles.
They're planning to have robotaxis in Austin and Atlanta.
Zoox vehicles are right outside
the convention center here, testing.
They seem like they're on the verge of starting service.
That gives us a very North American perspective.
I'm curious, can you fill us in
on what's going on around the globe
and how do you see that evolving here in 2025
so we'll know what we'll be talking about at CES 2026?
<v ->I would say the US is really at the forefront</v>
when we think about these deployments together with China.
And one of the reason why the two countries are going to,
in my view, continue being at the forefront
is because it's a race.
It's a race US against China in vehicle autonomy.
So when thinking about the world
and what we're seeing, how we're seeing this move forwards,
I believe that both China and the US
will still be at the forefront.
When we think about other regions such as Europe,
we are going, and I'm based in Europe,
it's going to take longer.
It's going to take longer because, among other things,
the big technology players
that are already today deploying
at larger and larger scales are not in Europe.
So it takes some time to really go into a new geography
and then there's all the regulation
to make sure that it also works.
And we were talking before
about the platform of regulations in the US,
but in Europe, it can be even worse.
It's better per country than it is per country in the US,
but if we think about entirety of Europe,
it has so many countries,
and they need to first get aligned on that.
Another region that I think is important to not forget
is the Middle East.
The technologies that will be implemented there
will likely be either the US ones or the Chinese ones,
but keeping in mind that the Middle East,
it's very eager to have these technologies.
We see that in the UAE and in Saudi Arabia especially.
And we will continue seeing them
in how they're going to start deploying this technology.
So I would say that's a little bit of
what I see outside of the US
<v ->Selika, can you piggyback on that a little bit?</v>
What does the state of autonomy here in the US say?
How does it relate to America's ability to innovate overall,
compete globally?
<v ->We always seemed like we were at the forefront,</v>
that we were leading.
I think there were failings
maybe in the administration before this administration
where we didn't take seriously what was happening in China.
They're not gonna wait for customer comfort.
They get to try things out on the roadway,
regions where they have to move people.
And one of the things that I
always like to impart when I speak is, on a global basis,
if you think about the average age of someone in America
being almost 40,
the average age of someone in a lot of Asian countries
being in their late 40s,
the average age of someone on the continent is 19.
We talk about the future of mobility
and where influence can take place.
To really radically change what's happening in countries,
it will start probably in places like
West Africa and East Africa,
where they are eager to join the race of what is happening.
Now, of course, they don't have the kind of infrastructure
that America has, or the dollars,
or ability to push technology like China.
America still wants to be number one.
And jokingly talking about President Musk
or Vice President Musk,
you have the ear
of the incoming president of the United States
with someone who understands
as deep as possible the possibilities
for the future of this technology
that it will give us as a country
I think a significant runway over the next few years
that may catapult us to the top of the heap
and into the first place.
<v ->Kind of as we close down in our final minutes here,</v>
I think about the future being here,
thinking about what's going on overseas.
JJ, supervision is deployed in China,
so what is that consumer getting from Mobileye,
and what do you see in that market right now?
<v ->Yeah, clearly a lot of competition,</v>
even stronger than in the US or in Europe.
And it's just like an openness.
I mean, you see the eagerness of consumers of customers,
so huge expectations that they can just get in the car,
drive from A to B, or take a ride from A to B.
So in terms of this openness
and also the customer expectations being really high,
that's very different.
But I have to say, overall,
I mean what what excites me is
to offer really inclusive mobility
to everyone, to all,
also to people with visual impairment
who really complain about
being rejected by drivers
because they're harder to be found.
They cannot wave.
They cannot let's say read the license plate,
find the right car,
or have a service dog and the driver rejects that,
and so on.
And then of course you look at the shuttle,
the haul-on shuttle, for example, at our booth
has a low floor, a ramp,
basically offering mobility to people in wheelchairs.
And I have to say,
getting that freedom and not just time back,
but also that freedom to go from A to B,
not depend on other humans, not depend on other people,
this is actually something where a lot of people
are just looking forward to that.
<v ->Speaking of giving people some freedom,</v>
giving people six degrees of freedom, right?
<v ->Exactly, yeah.</v>
No, but I think it's a great point.
I think what's really going to drive the future of autonomy
is fulfilling consumer needs.
And I think you talked about some of those
needs in the on-road space,
likewise in the off-road space.
That's really what this is about,
is we want to drive the adoption
because we are fulfilling consumer needs.
Ultimately, at the end of the day,
our goal as an organization
is to get more people into recreational marine.
We do that by making it more accessible,
by making it more intuitive and by making it easier.
And so that's really how we think about
what can the role of autonomy be
in driving that broader adoption
to get more people out there enjoying the water,
which is ultimately our goal.
<v ->All right, Maria, I believe the final word of the panel</v>
belongs to you.
Give us your thoughts on the road ahead.
<v ->Final words on the road ahead, in my view,</v>
is to make sure that we are still keeping safety in mind.
It has a lot of benefits.
Some of them as inclusivity,
thinking about the elderly population,
but collaboration and safety
should still be at the forefront
as we continue this vehicle autonomy conversation.
<v ->All right.</v>
I'll apologize for asking for questions
and then not getting to them,
but terrific conversation.
How about a hand for the panel?
All right, and thank you all for attending today.
I hope you enjoy the rest of CES.