My name is Chris Cook.
I'm the president of the Mobile Electronics Association,
and strangely enough, the founder of Connect2Car
some 25 years ago,
and I'd like to welcome all of you as attendees
of CES to Las Vegas and to the first session
of CES in the automotive space.
This is Connect2Car, started some 25 years ago
to bridge the aftermarket and the OEM.
Well, OEM is really taking over CES
and aftermarkets at different shows,
but still serving the same purpose of connecting people
to ideas and ideologies that drive the future of mobility.
So this year,
a lot of our speakers are gonna be looking out to 2050.
We looked out to 2030 last year.
We're going a little further out
to get an understanding of where things are going.
So this year, you'll see that this partnership, which again,
has gone on for 25 years, starting with MEA,
starting when I was working for CES.
We have SAE, COVESA, MEMA,
and AECOM all involved,
and the first speaker you'll see here
has joined our group, which I'll introduce in just a moment.
So the whole idea of this partnership was
to demonstrate collaboration among different associations
and different groups
in order for you to kind of see a broader view
of vehicle technology in these sessions.
So what you'll see starting
with the mobility intel report
is Steve giving a position on where we are
as an industry and where we're going.
Then you'll hear next level innovation,
creating the ultimate vehicle experience, vehicle payments,
very key one, the road ahead, vehicle safety,
reducing roadway risk and saving lives.
And then we'll finish it with mobility innovations.
That'll be the only one besides this one
that actually has PowerPoint presentations.
And each one of the speakers there will be presenting
their ideas that are already into automotive,
but you'll see kind of a startup.
That one will also have an interesting one starting off
with a little campfire chat.
We won't actually start a fire.
Campfire chat with the leader of Volvo
talking about the Camp X program
and how to foster innovation as an automaker.
And you see the speakers represent a pretty broad range
in the vehicle technology area.
So without further ado,
I would like to introduce Mr. Steve Greenfield,
general partner of automotive ventures
and early stage automotive technology.
I like to say incubator.
You find the innovation, you fund the innovation,
and you make the innovation happen, and an avid car guy.
So we get along just great.
Steve, come on up. Thank you so much for joining us.
<v ->Appreciate it.</v>
I'll take that from you. All right, cool.
Well thanks everyone for joining me on the first day of CES,
and we have a bunch of content to cover.
If anyone knows me at all,
I'm usually too ambitious with trying
to cram a lot of content in.
So we'll glance over the top of this.
A couple of housekeeping things.
Good, repeat it up here.
Is that I'll make the presentation available
to anyone who wants it.
Chris will upload it to the Connected Car site,
so you'll have the presentation and these videos as well.
So we are recording video in the back,
but if you'd like the presentation sooner,
just email me at steve@automotiveventures.com,
steve@automotiveventures.com,
which I'll show on the very last slide today as well.
And I'm happy to sit here and send it to you immediately.
And if it sparks any thoughts or conversations
with you or your team, happy to get on a follow-up call
and have those conversations.
So when Chris and I talked about extending mobility
and providing a perspective into 2050, one,
I think it fits very well with all of us leaving this room
and going down onto the show floor.
But it's pretty ambitious as you can see here,
as I've divided up the agenda today.
So we're only gonna have a small amount of time
for each of these topics,
but hopefully the content that I have here
provokes thoughts.
You may not agree with everything
that I show you to you today, which is great as well.
But like I said,
you at least get the presentation afterwards
and have a chance to really digest this content.
So as an investor, as Chris said,
we really look at the definition of mobility
in terms of how we move either humans
or cargo across the modalities of land, sea,
air, or space.
So I'm gonna take you through that journey today
and we're gonna touch on all of these things.
But let's start maybe most importantly
with ground transportation.
So if we look back to 1975 and index horsepower,
CO2 emissions, and weight, and fuel efficiency,
we see that cars, interestingly enough,
haven't gained a lot of weight net,
that they are getting fatter
in the last couple of years here.
But miles per gallon has doubled, horsepower has doubled,
yet the emissions are about half, right?
So all of these are trending in the right direction
except for the fact The Economist came out six months ago
with some research showing that the weight
of the cars is creating killer autos,
killer vehicles on American roads.
So the gray line is the probability
of you having a fatality in an automobile accident
for your vehicle weight.
So you can see obviously the heavier your car,
the less likely you you are
and the occupants to die.
But as the other car's weight increases,
there's a seven times increase for the fatality rate
for vehicles based on the other car.
So we're sort of in this prisoner's dilemma now, right?
So if you have a 16-year-old kid,
you wanna put them in a an SUV or a pickup truck
because there's this escalation of weight
and size on American roads.
And I don't know,
now that the Pandora's box has been opened,
I don't know how we ever go backwards in the US.
The automakers,
largely in response to pressures from the Chinese
that we'll get into today,
have really felt the pressure over this last year.
I was talking to Daniel from Bernstein
and he expects it to be an exciting year
as he covers the automobile stocks over the next year.
But there's tremendous pressure, right?
And I think you'll sense that on the show floor
as you go down there and walk the OEM's booths,
the OEMs that have elected to exhibit this year.
But interestingly now, if you contrast that at least
to the health of the franchise dealers in the US,
and there's a lot of information on the slide,
this is going back 50 years.
The thing to pay attention to is that blue line,
which is the average franchise dealer in the US,
they're in net profit pre-tax,
and that's eerily hovered at 2%.
There's never been a year in 50 years
where it's been negative,
even in the worst of years with recessions
and new carbon inventories being down, et cetera.
Yet up until Covid, this is a pre Covid snapshot,
we've never had really a year
that's been over 3% except in the last couple of years
during Covid where there was this artificial restriction
in supply of new and used vehicles.
So very durable, defensible business model.
But having said that,
I liken this to squeezing a water-filled balloon in terms
of the defensibility and the durability
of the franchise dealership model in the US,
which is really the fact that you've got up
to eight different interconnected and interdependent profit
and loss centers within a franchise dealership.
So on any given year,
if any of these sort of eight cylinders are under pressure,
then the owner can reallocate resources
to more healthy cylinders.
If we're gonna use the automotive metaphor.
And over time,
we've seen a lot of innovation in the business model itself.
And as a result, it's been a very durable
and defensible business model
from a profitability standpoint.
What we have witnessed since Covid is really the death
of the agency model, right?
During Covid, we heard a lot of OEMs,
particularly overseas, but not exclusively overseas,
talking about selling directly to the consumer,
resting back more control, the consumer experience,
taking on the responsibility for advertising and inventory,
and that largely is dead now,
we aren't hearing anyone talk about an agency model.
And it's mostly because inventories have mounted
in in a supply constraint environment
where there's more demand than supply,
and gross margins for every vehicle sold are very high,
of course it makes sense for an automaker to entertain
owning the inventory and controlling the inventory,
but that we're back for almost every single brand
to oversupply in the market and discounting and incentives,
it's not so attractive in this type of environment
for the automaker to be taking the inventory risk.
And therefore we aren't really hearing anything about
dealers being disintermediated by an agency model.
Let me shift to EVs while we're on ground transport.
EV sales globally are increasing.
So if there are 93 million new passenger vehicles
sold per year globally, in 2024,
we hit about 16 and a half million.
And that's estimated to be somewhere near
So it is still increasing,
but the rate of growth year over year is decelerating
very, very quickly, as you can see here,
almost down to a 0% growth year over year globally
in terms of EVs.
This is not spread evenly over countries
as we hear about countries like China,
countries like Norway,
specifically with massive EV adoption,
but definitely has decelerated
in many of the more Western countries,
yet if we sat last year at about 12% penetration in 2024,
this is Bloomberg's estimates,
at some point here we'll have sort of
a massive tipping point.
And I believe this passionately as well,
when the battery chemistry becomes much better in terms
of the amount of charge,
the distance we can get out of one charge
and the charging speed, forget charger availability
because we'll talk about inductive charging
in a few slides here,
but I do believe at some point,
we will have a tipping point
where the average consumer will say
it's just far better and more efficient
for me to buy an EV than an ICE vehicle,
internal combustion engine vehicle.
But for the time being,
that mentality is not the case in the US
and many of the western countries.
And there's been a lot of resistance.
Let me talk about China because I don't think
that right now probably if I am encouraging anyone
in the industry to be paying attention to,
China is the emerging force within automotive
that cannot be ignored.
So if we look back to the last 20 years,
China car production has gone from 1% to 39%.
And we'll talk about sort of the capacity
they've built, the over capacity,
and thus the pressure on exporting.
But it's just an amazing chart to look at
and then the pressure as a result
for everybody else in the world responding to this,
especially in international markets.
And we'll talk a little bit about the tariffs that the US,
Canada, and Europe have erected as a result.
But you look at maybe most notably we talk about the threat
in the US, but look at Japan's leading sort of share
of the passenger car production back in 1998,
and here we are 25 years later
and they're a pale number two and feeling a lot of pressure.
And this is manifesting
in a lot of activity within the Japanese OEMs,
not the least of which we heard the announcement recently
about Honda and Nissan merging,
but you're gonna see more reaction from the Japanese
trying to figure out where they sit vis-a-vis
the Japanese or the Chinese,
and the pressure's gonna continue to mount.
So I talked about production capacity.
So if we look at the sales,
this is China's production car capacity
versus domestic car sales,
domestic car sales there north of 20,
but 24 million new vehicles sold per year.
So by far the largest new car market in the world,
but production capacity is up there north of 40 million.
So there are about 250 OEMs within China right now.
Most of them are not profitable whatsoever,
and they're slitting each, sorry for the graphic metaphor,
but they're slitting each other's throats to compete.
And as a result,
this extra capacity is largely being pushed internationally.
So despite the fact that they may be facing tariffs,
et cetera in other countries,
a unit sold internationally can be far more profitable
than a unit at home when they're losing money
on every single unit sold.
And there isn't any slowing this down at this point
until there's some sort of reconciliation
around the 250 OEMs,
which is inevitable with this kind of dynamic.
But in the meantime, there is intense pressure
to export these vehicles out of China.
Largely because of the excess capacity,
the production costs are dramatically lower.
This compares a BYD seal versus a Volkswagen ID3
that's made in Europe
and it's demonstrably cheaper in terms of vis-a-vis
the legacy automakers, right?
So the legacy automakers are looking at this and thinking,
how do we respond to this other than erecting tariffs
to protect our home countries?
But as you can imagine, in any environment
where you've got severe overcapacity,
the Chinese automakers are feeling it in terms
of pressure on margins as well as the dealers
because there isn't margin to feed the dealers.
So we've had about 4,000 Chinese franchise dealers
close in 2024, and that will continue as well.
So I don't need to get into economics
because I'm not an economist up here,
but I try to read as much as I can.
And Joseph Schumpeter was an economist
that coined the term creative destruction,
and he saw innovation happening in waves.
And if you track back to the beginning
of the industrial revolution,
you had the British Empire sort of dominated here
these first two waves with iron,
water power, steam power, et cetera.
Then the US, largely on the back of petroleum products,
really dominated in terms
of the next three waves of innovation, right?
Electricity and cheap steel all the way
through IT out of Silicon Valley.
The question is,
if the next wave is largely gonna be powered by two things,
renewable energy and also AI,
who is going to emerge as the dominant superpower?
And many indications are, it'll be China,
at least in terms of renewables,
there's no doubt at this point
with some of the slides I'm about to show you,
but AI is still to be determined, right?
We're seeing these massive fundraisers
and valuations for these companies out of Silicon Valley,
but China at the same time is innovating
likely at just at the same pace.
What China did do 20 years ago as we saw,
they preemptively,
because they wanted independence from oil, which was,
they're a net importer of oil,
get independence around the power plant, right?
So in terms of mining, processing, component production,
battery production, and vehicle assembly for EVs,
those yellow bars are the percentage
that China owns of each of those channels.
And it's daunting when you're an automaker in Western Europe
or in the US looking at,
you're effectively beholden
to this Chinese economic engine
in terms of the supply chain for EVs,
whether you're trying to get the raw ingredients
that go into batteries
or the batteries in the EV components themselves.
Elon Musk, who has had no shortage
of press over the last year,
I could spend 40 minutes talking about Elon,
but said the Chinese EV firms will demolish
the domestic automakers if we don't erect tariffs.
And now he's got a strong mouth piece into Trump's ear.
As a result, Biden erected 100% tariffs
against the Chinese.
And what I would say,
tariffs are great in the short term,
there're a short term bandaid,
but what we have to be aware of
is there's gotta be some way
we innovate out of this whole, right?
If you do believe, and you may not,
you may not agree with me that the dominant power plant
will be electric in the future.
If you believe that thesis,
then you need to have a strategy to say,
great, these tariffs are buying us a short amount of time,
let's make sure we use that time to innovate
and try to leapfrog the Chinese.
But we'll see how this all plays out.
I don't know how this would all play out,
but it's an exciting time in automotive to say the least.
We heard a year ago that Ford and GM
were open to partnerships in terms
of collaborating on the backend.
Well, a few things have happened since.
One is we saw this news just a couple of weeks ago,
probably about a month ago in terms of Honda and Nissan.
This won't be the last, I mean the next couple of years,
we'll see more at least collaboration
if not discussions around mergers on the backend,
partially to take out costs and get economies of scale.
But a lot of this is in response to the existential threat
that the Chinese have on these legacy automakers.
And there'll be a whole bunch of implications
on the tier one suppliers as well.
Let's talk about repair and service of vehicles.
So the cars are getting more complex, right?
A lot of the stuff you're gonna see in the West Hall
are new technologies,
either software or hardware technologies
that are going into the vehicles
either in an immediate generation or future generation.
And this is gonna have
a lot of impacts on repairability
and the cost to ensure these vehicles
as they get more complex.
The average franchise dealer in the US usually loses
about 70% of the service opportunities
at the end of the warranty period,
which has historically been about a three year period.
So I'm a franchise dealer,
usually for the first three years,
I have high loyalty from customers
that get my Honda or Toyota
or General Motors vehicle service at the franchise dealer.
But after that three year period,
the loyalty goes out the window
and the consumer typically searches
for a cheaper servicing mechanism,
which has spawned this huge amount
of aftermarket in the US.
I believe, and not everyone agrees with me,
we're gonna see a dramatically flattening out of this line.
Meaning that consumers are gonna be much more loyal
to going back and servicing their vehicles
at franchise dealers even after the warranty period,
which has big implications on the aftermarket overall.
So we're already seeing articles like this,
and then the pendulum sling swings from
a lobbying standpoint around national right to repair acts
to allow the independent repair shop to get access
to the telematics data off the vehicles as well
as the blueprints
and just being able to repair these vehicles.
But despite this,
I think that the countervailing force is gonna be
the cars are getting so complex
and the technician skill so high
and the specialized tools needed to work on the vehicles
so sophisticated that despite the fact
that the average repair shop,
the average oil chain shop is perhaps gonna have access
to be able to repair the vehicles,
are they gonna have the technician sophistication
and the specialized tools they need?
So we can all take a page out of Apple's book in terms
of the closed walled garden that they've built
around that ecosystem.
And it's awfully hard to work on an Apple product
if you're an independent repair shop,
and they make it hard on purpose.
Repair inflation has been a real challenge in the US.
I think that some argue that Biden lost the election
to Trump primarily because of inflation in the US
and the average consumer feeling this
and voting against Biden.
If you look at inflation for the last,
sort of the beginning of Covid over the last four years,
it's up about 20% the average CPI,
but the repair of vehicles,
the inflation for repair costs
is up more than twice that, right?
So consumers are really feeling pressure
out of their pocketbooks for vehicle repair.
And electric vehicles much more so
than internal combustion engine vehicles.
Think about the dynamic here.
A lot of these electric vehicles are first generation,
so there are more problems with recalls, et cetera.
There is not the technician skill yet
to work on these things,
and there may not be the specialized tools
out there in every repair shop.
So consumers are waiting longer to get their EVs repaired
and paying more to get those repairs done.
And then we see things like this, right?
So this was a minor fender bender by any account
of a Rivian truck,
and it was nine months to get the truck back,
and the repair cost was $42,000.
You're gonna see more of this,
and let me just unpack a little bit
why we're gonna see more of this.
What I have a hard time juxtaposing or figure out,
I've never worked for an automaker,
but how automakers are thinking about
what I'm about to show you in terms of vehicle design
and the sophistication of that and the complexity of that,
and then how the average consumer is gonna be able
to own these vehicles and insure them
because it won't take a lot of cases like this, for example,
where the insurance companies are saying
we're not gonna insure some of these models
because they're gonna be so expensive to fix.
So let me walk you through a couple of slides here.
So on the left, you've got two Model 3s, Tesla Model 3s.
On the left was a previous generation
where the frame had a 150 different components.
Now with mega casting or giga casting,
that same vehicle has three components in the frame.
And I remember when I worked in the wholesale auctions
that you'd see these guys
and they'd rip off a quarter panel of a vehicle
and repair it and then put the car back into the fleet.
Well no longer is that the case, right?
You get a small tear or bend in the frame now
and there aren't parts to replace.
And that theme is continuing across other components
of the vehicle as well.
This may not be a great example,
but look at that suspension component
on the right hand side for this hypercar.
This technology will eventually trickle down
to the average vehicle,
but when AI is designing car parts
to remove weight and build rigidity,
parts are gonna start to look like this.
And I have no idea what that part would cost to replace,
but I'm guessing that you can't go into your Pep Boys
and buy that off the shelf.
I'll get you to laugh at one of them anyway.
So in the same vein, so these are Tesla parts, right?
And again, I don't know a lot about vehicle manufacturing,
but just common sense would dictate you look
at that air conditioning manifold
in the lower right hand corner,
that's all one piece of solid cast aluminum.
And for a domestic automaker,
you'd look at that and you'd be like,
there's probably 20 or 30 different individual parts
that we can go into O'Reilly's or Pep Boys or Advance
and buy a $20 part and swap it out and replace it.
If for some reason that part gets damaged
through accident or otherwise, a small tear or whatever,
and you have to replace that solid piece of aluminum,
that's gotta be a six or $7,000 part.
So again, think about reconciling this thing, right?
Cars used to be really straightforward and easy to repair.
In the spirit of trying
to drive down production costs in the production line,
we've come up with sophisticated manufacturing processes,
but those sophisticated manufacturing processes
aren't doing anything for the repairability of the vehicles.
And then imagine all of this
will manifest in higher insurance costs,
which we get to here,
and vehicle insurance premiums have surged
since 2004 significantly.
And I don't think that this is gonna slow down at all
because there is going to continue
to be intense pressure from the OEMs to remove costs
and their production facilities.
And all of that adds to more complexity on the car.
And at some point, we're gonna have to reconcile,
are these cars repairable at all?
Are they simply gonna be disposable?
And how is a consumer gonna be able
to buy the sophisticated piece of equipment
and be able to afford the insurance premiums on them?
All right, cool. So that was a lot on ground transport.
I'm gonna fly over most of these other categories.
So micromobility.
So interestingly enough, when you define micromobility,
and this is a chart from McKinsey here
in terms of penetration,
but really the three things is to pay attention to.
For the first two markets, China and Asia,
really we're talking about dramatic penetration
of scooters,
light motorcycles more in Latin America and Africa.
And the US is the only market really
that the dominant two-wheeler
is the heavy motorcycle overall.
So it's easy to generalize
about what quote unquote micromobility is.
And we don't even have electric scooters on here
like bird and lime,
but we are grouping together a complex ecosystem
of different types of vehicles,
but what we are seeing is an emergence
of the e-bike, right?
Unlike EVs for passenger vehicles,
it's almost a no brainer with the cost now
in these vehicles,
and that is greatly reducing emissions,
tailpipe emissions, and we're seeing innovations,
Gogoro is the best example potentially internationally,
but not the only by any means of battery swap, right?
So battery swap has been attempted a few different times
over the last two decades for vehicles,
I wouldn't say unsuccessfully at this point
because there are VC-backed startups
now like Ample that continue the fight.
But for small electric vehicles, two wheelers,
it makes a lot of sense, right?
We can just pop up to a station, swap up the battery,
two minutes later you're back in action.
And as long as the consumer doesn't want to own that battery
and is willing to subscribe to it on a monthly basis,
I think we're gonna see more of this
and we'll see more of this in the US.
Aviation and space is fun.
One thing I'm sure of is 20, 30 years from now,
we will continue to see this footage.
So this is like an iconic moment in the history of space,
and it just happened in our lifetime this last year.
So it was an interesting and exciting year,
and we'll see more progress in terms
of what SpaceX is accomplishing.
TNMT is Lufthansa's innovation arm.
And and they believe that in terms
of the trough of disillusionment,
autonomous flight and sustainable aviation fuels
are past the worst of it.
They believe that air ships,
big like sort of zeppelins and supersonic flight
may not ever make it out of the trough.
And then we still have to test
hydrogen electric space travel and VTOLs are at this point
being tested right now.
We've seen some notable bankruptcies recently
and big funding frankly too for the ones
that are out ahead.
In terms of implications here at CES, keep an eye out,
last year we saw all kinds of VTOLs, right?
There was amazing from Hyundai and Honda, et cetera.
Keep an eye out for the Japanese
and the Korean automakers in terms of what they are
or aren't interestingly exhibiting this year.
And then we might be overdue for these aluminum tubes
that we all got here in terms of aircraft travel
because that innovation really,
we haven't seen any innovation for about 50 years.
So in terms of both speed of aircraft,
if anything it's slower now with all of the
sort of TSA regulations that we go through
getting onto the plane to begin with.
But the flight times haven't really changed.
So we are seeing at least proposed innovations in terms
of carrying more people at faster speeds
and more conveniently.
Hydrogen as we'll talk about in a few minutes here
in terms of new technologies is being tested with aviation.
But there are still challenges as there are electricity
as well in terms of weight and the energy density.
We're talking about potentially going
to one pilot in commercial flights
and enhancing the autonomy of aircraft.
With aircraft and marine,
it's easier because there are more tolerances
believe it or not in terms of AV.
You don't have vehicles driving
six inches from each other on a freeway.
But I think that consumers are gonna have to get comfortable
with more autonomous functionality
in the commercial airlines that we all fly on.
And then there's talk about supersonic.
So American Airlines agreed to buy 20
of these supersonic airplanes if
and when they ever get produced,
but there will be supersonic aircraft,
and then there'll be aircraft
that supposedly breach the atmosphere.
So you can literally land anywhere on the face
of the earth within one hour
because you kind of go into orbit and come back down.
So it'll be interesting to see can any of us,
well some in the room perhaps, maybe not me,
but can you justify $30,000 a ticket
or whatever it's going to be?
I mean for some business travelers,
if you can get a Tokyo from here in one hour,
people will justify that, right?
So even if these aircraft don't seat a lot of people,
they may be economically viable,
nothing that I'm investing in early stage
because I think there'll be a lot of burnouts,
but at the same time it's exciting
to see if we can make pretty radical transformations
in terms of the efficiency of aircraft.
And then obviously,
no conversation about mobility would be complete
without talking about drones.
And I think that if you're like me,
and I expect most of you are
because at least most Americans are members of Amazon Prime
and we're all conditioned now to get products the same day.
Now we're talking about getting products within 10 minutes
for anything that's light enough
and durable enough to be dropped 30 feet onto your lawn
and then blown away by the current overall.
All right, so marine is very interesting as well.
So a lot of parallels as you'll see other than wind power
and wind power coming back for some of these ships at sea
to try to increase sort of like fuel efficiency.
There may be like sort of the equivalent of HOV
or high occupancy vehicle lanes on the seas as well.
So ships that have lower CO2 emissions
may get preferential treatment in terms of the channels
as an incentive, kind of a carrot and stick.
and then we're seeing ammonia, hydrogen,
and electricity all being tested.
Very early stages right now,
but there is a lot of venture capital money
chasing these ideas to see iF these alternative
drivetrains are gonna work on the water.
But as you can imagine, all of them have challenges,
and then autonomous as well, right?
So for some of these shipping routes that are long haul,
as you can imagine, he trickle down effect of
the AV technology that we see at CES in vehicles will
and is trickling down to ships overall on the high seas.
And then we'll transition to autonomy.
So it's been an interesting year.
We've seen Waymo make a lot of progress,
including recently announcing that they're coming
into Japan in a few years, which is very interesting too.
I mean it still has been a bottomless pit
of money absorption, right?
And as we saw withGM GM finally said enough's enough,
we're not gonna continue to pour money into this thing.
They didn't kill their AV initiative,
they're just gonna focus on more ADAS
as opposed to robo taxis.
But it was sad to see
because this innovation is exciting.
If you have had a chance to test it out,
it's very exciting if you get a chance to.
And then there will be mixed feelings
and mixed reactions around Elon's announcement
around the Cybercab.
We'll see if he can ever actually
get this thing into production,
but it can't hurt to have Trump's ear to be able
to sort of like potentially
reduce some of the regulations
against testing these things in the wild.
And then we had another billion dollar investment
this last year out of the UK into wave as well,
which is more focused on the technology
than actually putting the vehicles
themselves into production.
So it's always nice to dig out slides
from 10 or 15 years ago.
This is a slide from Morgan Stanley back in 2012,
and they were extrapolating out the timeline
for full autonomous on roads.
And you can see here by about this time,
we were expected to have 100% penetration.
All the passenger vehicles on the roads
were gonna be fully autonomous
and it was gonna cause all these disruptive effects.
I'm gonna pull out another slide in a minute
to show because now that we're actually starting
to see here, 10, 15 years down the road,
some traction around autonomous vehicles finally,
these implications that we talked about 10 or 15 years ago
may ultimately start to manifest themselves.
Interestingly enough,
a slide from Q4 last year from Goldman Sachs
looked at projected penetration by country,
by country in terms of AV.
Now it's a bit of a cop up
because they include levels three, four, and five,
not just levels four and five,
but they're projecting by 2040
that China will be at 90% penetration
for new vehicles in terms of fully autonomous.
Europe, not too far behind, the US is 65%.
India much further down,
but still making some traction as well.
So we'll talk a little bit about the puts
and takes that have to happen here.
But it's interesting for them to go out,
especially juxtapose against that last slide
by Morgan Stanley.
They're reaching out to 2040
to predict really high adoption rates for AV.
Our friends at Roland Berger, a couple slides from them,
there are challenges for autonomous vehicles, right?
There's the technology itself, there's the economic case,
because right now as I'm about to show you
with the slide from McKinsey,
it's much more expensive per mile to deliver a Waymo mile
than it is just in a regular Uber.
There's customer acceptance overall.
Will customers feel safe in these things
because a lot of people don't yet.
There's regulatory complexity
and then there's the capital to fund these things
because it's clearly not a cheap endeavor.
And if you draw your attention just down to the lower right,
I mean, Roland Berger by 2040 believes
that we'll get strong progress towards consumers
trusting these things.
Remember this is now 15 years from now,
and the legal implications as well,
the legal hurdles that are gonna be out there,
but they're not as confident
around these other areas of autonomy.
So we've got, at least in the US
from a western standpoint, we've got a bit to go.
But there's no doubt that autonomy
should theoretically save lives.
In the US, we had 42,000 deaths for the last couple
of years in the US from traffic fatalities.
Globally, that number is 1.2, 1.3 million deaths globally.
And I don't think there's any arguing
that if we binary flipped over to fully autonomous,
there'd be fewer deaths.
We'd have all kinds of other issues,
but there'd be fewer deaths from human error in fatalities.
Whether that's from people not paying attention,
being distracted, alcohol, what have you.
So the thesis is strong.
How we get there on this journey is not so clear.
But I would just encourage us
to not let the perfect be the enemy of the good.
We need to continue to fund these initiatives
and push forward through a lot of these resistors
because I think that the savings,
net savings of human life will make it all worthwhile.
I believe Uber's whole business model to begin with.
Again, remember back to that 2012 slide
from Morgan Stanley was that we were on the precipice
of having full autonomy which would dramatically drive down
the cost per mile for human delivery, these vehicles.
Uber burned a collective 31 and a half billion dollars
into 2023, 10 years later.
But they've made profitable quarters the last four quarters,
and this will flip dramatically
if they are able to co-opt Waymo
and start to provide rides
that don't have the human drag of costs.
And as I said earlier, McKinsey recently,
this is in the last month, quantified the current cost
per mile for an autonomous mile driven is $8 US.
But they believe that at scale,
pretty massive scale as you unpack this, but at scale,
that should reduce down to $1.32 per mile by 2035.
So this dramatic uptake
or reduction in cost per mile could flip the economics
of a whole bunch of different business models,
including Uber.
And then a slide also I pulled out from about 10 years ago,
which is downstream,
which industries will be impacted the most
if we do go get to a full autonomy future,
the ones I'll draw your attention to
in the upper right hand corner is auto insurance
because the cars are safe and no longer have accidents.
The health car system, at 42,000 fewer deaths a year,
there'll be a definite impact on the healthcare system
and then parking overall as well.
We won't need to park if we can just
summon these vehicles and they're fully autonomous.
So I'm gonna need to move ahead here
because I've got only a couple minutes left.
So let me move to industrial tech.
So it's great to go down
and see these big earth mover machines
on the show floor, which is really cool.
Just like aviation and marine,
there are fewer restrictions, right?
You've got mining agriculture on fixed routes
where you don't have humans walking around.
So autonomous and electrification
can be much more prevalent.
So keep an eye out for this on the show floor.
We're seeing this in farming
with self-driving tractors and electrification,
which is very interesting as well.
New technologies, I think we've talked about most of this.
The growth,
the expected growth in lithium ion batteries is growing
sort of exponentially, largely dominated by the Chinese,
not exclusively, but the Asian manufacturers
including Korea and Japan dominate battery production
and the cost luckily is coming down pretty dramatically.
Yet, if you look at sort of the density versus cost
as we talked about earlier,
aviation kerosene and gasoline
just provides a lot more power per unit
of weight than batteries on the bottom here.
And until we get more energy per unit of weight,
we're not realistically gonna be having airplanes powered
by batteries anytime soon.
And there are big implications on ships as well.
There's a lot of talk, buzz,
and you'll see here about solid state batteries overall.
The challenge with solid state is that
there are higher costs of production,
there is dendrite formation as well,
and then there's higher dependence on lithium,
which is one thing we'd like to get away from
as much as possible.
And then I talked about inductive charging as well,
be it over a parking spot
when the car is stationary or in motion.
I think that our grandchildren will look back
at the fact that we had to plug a wire into the side
of an electric vehicle as being similar
to a rotary phone, right?
It just won't compute, it'll be like,
why did you have to do that?
Because there will be inductive charging that's ubiquitous.
This will take the edge off of a lot
of the resistance towards EVs.
So circling back to the beginning,
how does the US position themselves to win?
A lot of folks are speculating to dominate
around solid state batteries if that's the future.
Luckily enough, we've had some really big discoveries
both in Nevada and down in Arkansas recently
in terms of lithium
to get energy independence in terms of the supply chain.
And then there's recycling as well.
So there's been a lot of VC money focused on recycling.
But once there's enough EVs in population,
if we're really efficient with extracting
at the end of life these raw components out of the vehicles,
then you can imagine this circular sort of economy
of making sure that we are fairly energy independent.
So I didn't have a chance
to talk a lot about hydrogen today.
Hydrogen has its own issues, right?
The nice thing is it's abundant, but at the same time,
it allows fast refueling unlike charging right now,
the challenge is that it takes a lot of electricity, right?
So to produce hydrogen, you really need to have abundant
and cheap electricity, which renewables should provide,
but you still have to worry
about the infrastructure overall.
Getting the hydrogen to the vehicles
that need the hydrogen overall.
All right, cool, so let me go through here
because I am at time and Chris is gonna ask me off here.
Let's wrap this up by looking at one, the supply chain.
Amazon is talking very aggressively
around replacing humans in their warehouses with robotics.
Kathy Wood from ARK Invest says that
Amazon's robots could outnumber humans within seven years.
And then we're seeing evidence of this,
just recently Denso said that they're going
to build a worker less factory for Toyota overall.
And then one of the most interesting things
that we've seen over the last couple of years
with both the Israeli conflict as well as Ukraine
is really the rise of AI and drones within warfare overall.
So this was an article of the Atlantic recently
that said the waves of innovation
for warfare have been, one gunpowder, two, nuclear weapons,
and the next is AI.
And there will be a lot of ethical issues that we all have
to face with how much we're gonna allow
automated machines to kill humans.
This is gonna happen at the police department level overall.
Drones are being very effectively used in Ukraine right now
to neutralize Russian tanks,
and Boston Dynamics did come out
and say our robot dogs will not be armed,
yet not every military vendor has the same sort of locus.
And we've seen robot dogs being equipped
to protect borders, to go into battlefields, et cetera.
Autonomous tank-like vehicles going into battle as well.
We're talking about autonomous boats for the US Navy,
and then there'll be drones both underwater
to attack subs potentially
and boats in the military as well
as the US Navy is experimenting with drones,
non-human guided drones off of aircraft carriers
that can go run sorties and then come back
and land on aircraft carriers.
And the US military, this may change under Trump,
has proclaimed that by 2050,
they want to be net zero and go electric,
which has a lot of implications for
how we're gonna be able to deploy vehicles
into the field of battle that are electric.
So let me wrap with climate overall.
So maybe I should have started here,
but maybe to dull the edge,
we can talk about the implications
for connecting mobility to climate overall.
So there will be folks
that have different perspectives here,
I'll leave it as that.
But from the time that we are able to measure,
CO2 levels in the atmosphere are dramatically higher
than they've ever been.
We are facing warming climates around the world as well,
which are escalating and accelerating.
This trend is not a good trend, to state the obvious.
And mobility plays a very large role in this, right?
So we look at aircraft, how most of us got here,
as well as passenger vehicles
that have single occupancy if they're emitting petroleum,
and there are levers to decarbonize aviation
that are being pushed on at this point.
The good thing this is McKinsey
and company as well looking at,
we may have or are experiencing peak emissions now,
and so we should be able to start
to heal the damage that's been done overall,
but not through,
we need to continue to push on these things.
And then the good thing in terms
of maybe a couple of feel good slides is 45%
of all energy now globally
is being produced through renewables.
And if you look at the breaking that down,
we're seeing a real acceleration in solar recently
as well as wind.
And if you look at solar now,
this is the International Energy Agency
that believes by 26, 27,
solar will be generating more energy globally
than anything else, including coal and natural gas.
And then there are some more radical technologies
that are being tested right now to increase cloud cover
to protect the earth from the sun penetrating,
including aerosol injection into the clouds,
cloud brightening from the marine standpoint
that we've seen on the west coast,
and then adding alkalinity to the seas as well
to neutralize and bring down the pH.
And there's carbon capture as well.
So let me wrap here, so we are investors,
we're looking at the lens of all of these changes
and then trying to deploy 10 year funds
against these changes and find really talented entrepreneurs
who are innovating in these spaces overall.
And our investment thesis,
that was the one slide where the font
got corrupted a little bit, I can share this with you,
happy to have these conversations about
where we're seeing innovation, et cetera.
One of the reasons I'm here is to walk the floor
and see if there are entrepreneurs
that are investible out there.
The last slide that I'll leave you on here,
this slide came up in the last month.
This is Oliver Wyman.
A lot of information on here,
but these are these different areas of mobility
and where they expect the quote unquote
profit pools or revenue's gonna come from
between now and 2035.
So the green colored bars are
expected 2035 revenue from these areas.
And if you kind of squint at it,
you see the big areas are, in the upper right hand corner,
air taxis, just below that, micromobility.
In the middle at the bottom, you see ADAS systems overall,
with all that's going on in autonomy,
autonomy's time seems to have come.
In-vehicle digital services and unlocking that
and having consumers pay.
And then on the left hand side,
you got car rental and ride hailing.
So with that, Chris, I guess one shout out
for one of our companies that's on the floor,
if you haven't seen Kinetic do a robotic ADAS calibration,
they're actually down on the floor.
So you can see them in the West Hall, drop by and see them.
I'll be hanging out with them quite a bit at a time.
And with that we'll stop, and Chris,
I don't know if we have time
for questions or we have to break.
I'm getting this.
All right, good. If you have questions, come by and see me.
But thank you very much and have a great show.