<v Announcer>Please help me in welcoming Melissa Harrison,</v>
Vice President, Communications and Marketing,
Consumer Technology Association,
producer of CES to the stage.
<v ->Good morning, everyone.</v>
<v Crowd>Good morning.</v>
<v ->Come on, I know it's not that early in Las Vegas.</v>
Good morning and welcome to CES 2025.
We are thrilled to have you here.
We cannot believe that it is time
for CES again already this year.
It is so exciting to be back in Las Vegas,
and I can't wait for all that you're going to explore
and see this year.
We have a real treat for you this morning.
We have SiriusXM and our, I don't know,
I gotta tell you,
we have a bunch of fan favorites at CES
and CTA of Ashley Flowers.
It is truly incredible
that we have them here on the stage today.
As you know, at CES, C Space is the heart of the content
and advertising culture where we explore the trends
transforming the entertainment we produce and consume.
So I'm thrilled to welcome two trailblazers
in audio entertainment,
pushing the medium forward
and helping millions of people reach the voices, stories,
and the music they love.
Jennifer Witz is the CEO of SiriusXM,
one of North America's
leading audio entertainment companies.
In her more than two decades at SiriusXM,
Jennifer has been front and center
as the entertainment industry has transformed,
driving the company's digital transformation,
expanding its content offerings,
advancing its streaming and in-car technology,
and supporting the growth of its advertising business.
She's known for her strategic vision
and commitment to building a powerful
and diverse slate of top voices across entertainment,
news, music, sports, and talk radio.
Today, she will be joined by Ashley Flowers,
whose voice you may recognize
from her hit podcast "Crime Junkie."
But Ashley is so much more than that.
She's a CEO, a founder, a crime stopper,
and a passionate advocate for victims.
You are in for a real treat today,
Jennifer and Ashley will dive into the evolution
and future of audio entertainment
from satellite radio to streaming to podcasts.
They'll explore the impact of tech on media consumption,
how art and science come together to move listeners,
and the biggest challenges
and opportunities facing audio creators today.
So please, without further ado,
join me in welcoming Jennifer Witz
and Ashley Flowers.
<v ->Thank you so much.</v>
<v ->Thank you.</v>
<v ->Hello, everyone.</v>
It's my first time here at C Space
and actually my first time back at CES in five years,
and I'm really excited to be here with you all.
At SiriusXM, our vision is to shape the future of audio
where everyone can effortlessly connect to the voices,
stories, and music they love wherever they are.
Over the last two decades,
we're proud to have been a foundation
of the audio revolution
from innovations in space
and in the car across satellite and streaming.
But while how we listen
and the technology that's empowered that
has changed dramatically,
what remains really just the same is why we listen.
And we are entertained
and informed by audio, moved and enlightened.
And most of all, it helps us feel connected.
The enduring power of audio is centered around its ability
to bring people together and to change hearts and minds.
It's an innately personal medium,
and yet with innovations across generative AI
and immersive venues, like the Sphere just down the street,
we're at a poignant moment in audio's history
and also its future.
And who better to discuss all of this with
than the number one female podcaster in the nation,
New York Times bestselling author and CEO
and founder of Audiochuck, Ashley Flowers.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
<v ->So if you're a true crime fan,</v>
and I know many of you are out there,
you are sure to know and love Ashley's podcast,
"Crime Junkie" and the entire Audiochuck network.
Ashley has been a proud member of the SiriusXM family
I think since 2021,
and we've supported the growth of her business as well.
And her story is a great one to cover today
because it's a fantastic example of what the evolution
of audio technology has really enabled,
and she's got a unique vantage point
that I think will be helpful as we look at what's next.
So let's dive in.
Okay, so Ashley, I think we're gonna have a bit
of a discussion and back and forth.
I know you'll have some questions for me,
but the first question I have for you
is I would to start by hearing
about how and why you found your way into audio,
and in particular the role
that the evolving tech landscape has played in that.
And maybe you can talk a little bit
about what that's done for you in terms
of creating your connection to audiences.
<v ->Yeah, audio is just something that I always loved.</v>
I mean, when I was little,
I used to go into my parents' minivan
to like catch this one radio show
for like kids back in the day.
I fell in love with audiobooks
long before podcasting was mainstream.
And truth be told, I mean, it was something that I loved,
but it was also,
podcasting was the only space that would let me in.
I didn't really come from a broadcasting background.
I was some random girl from Indiana.
And when we started, the beauty of podcasting,
which which is still so beautiful is anyone can do it.
And all I needed was, when you talk about tech,
all I needed was an RSS feed.
And so when we first started, that was really what it is.
And the RSS feed hasn't changed so much,
but I think what's really changed
is the tech on the business side,
how we are measuring what is a download, what is a stream,
how do you deliver, how do you insert ads,
how do you deliver ads?
And the way that that's evolved in the seven years
that I've been in podcasting has been unbelievable.
Like anyone who was in podcasting in October of '23
when Apple completely changed the way we measure downloads,
it like changed the business for so many of us.
But I think it's exciting
because I think we were a brand new space,
everyone says it's the wild west, it still is a little bit,
and I think the more accurate we're getting,
the more we're figuring it out,
I think it's better for creators.
I think it's better for listeners.
We really know who our audience is.
I think it's better for advertisers.
They're really knowing what's getting delivered,
who are their ads reaching.
And so I don't think we're done,
like it is constantly still evolving,
but really it's been not so much on the creative side,
but on the business side where the tech has played
such a massive role in the evolution.
And you asked me how did I get started,
I think for you, why have you stayed so long?
I mean, you've been with SiriusXM
for almost two decades, right?
<v ->Little longer, yeah.</v>
<v ->What inspires you?</v>
What do you love about audio above all other mediums?
<v ->Yeah, so I've always thought there are two sets</v>
of people generally,
those that after a long day kind of come home
and gravitate towards video,
turn the TV on or whatever your device of choice is,
and those that sort of gravitate towards audio.
And it could be your music collection
or your favorite podcast or radio,
like the example you gave
of like going into the car and listening to something.
And I've always been passionate about audio.
It's always been the first thing I wanna do when I get home
or I get on the subway to go to work.
And it's just, I love it,
and I love kind of that immersion you have
when you are listening to something
and you feel really connected to it.
But I think if we take a step back,
audio is so unique in terms of the science, the intimacy,
and the connection that it affords.
And particularly with science
and the way the brain processes sound,
it can really impact everything from your mood
or your memories and your breathing or your heart rate.
It's incredibly impactful on memory.
And like your memory of listening to radio in the car,
for any of you,
I think if you hear a song you haven't heard in a long time,
it'll just immediately take you back
to that moment in your past.
And I think that's so powerful.
You just don't see that I think with a lot of other media.
And the intimacy of audio I think plays into that, right?
Where audio can go where so many other media can't go.
Like the car or like in your earbuds
when you're jogging or something.
<v ->People take baths with me sometimes.</v>
<v ->Yes, and so I just think it creates that connection</v>
that you really can't get with video or other media.
And I think there's something
to the fact that like, during the pandemic,
we often heard at Sirius that the hosts were
just the constant companions that people were looking for,
that there was like almost a social surrogate for that time
when you couldn't be with people in person.
And so the science, the intimacy, the connections,
I think all of this is also what drives fandoms
and whether it's Swifties
or it's your Crime Junkies.
<v ->I think something too is with the way AI is moving,</v>
I think we might get to like personal movies
for each one of us,
but it does allow you to like use your imagination.
And I think it's what makes it so great
is like you get to picture it exactly how you want it
so customized without the creator
having to do all the customization.
It's really interesting.
So you've had this front row seat,
if not being in the driver's seat this whole time
to the industry as it's changed,
what in the last 20 years has surprised you the most
or been the most unexpected?
And especially in the last year
with like how the rate of change has just speeding up.
<v ->That's it, right?</v>
The pace of innovation has just been
so rapid over the last two decades,
and it's really across two primary areas.
It's how we listen that's changed,
and you touched on this a little bit before,
and it's also how people create audio,
and the technology of just
how we listen has been fascinating
over the last two decades,
whether for music for instance with vinyl or cassettes
or you think back you had all these CDs
and MP3s and now of course streaming.
And that's made music really global.
And then the technology has also powered
the growth of audiobooks and podcasts,
and you have all of this audio in your pocket on your phone.
It's hard to imagine that from 20 years ago.
And we all have connected devices in our homes,
and then of course the quality
of the hardware has grown dramatically too.
So just what you have in terms
of your home speaker systems or your car systems,
or again, like these immersive venues like the Sphere,
it's just been amazing to see the evolution
of how audio is delivered.
And then for creators, like you said,
it's much easier to create, market, and distribute,
whether it's music or a podcast or a show.
And that just affords so many opportunities for creators
to build audiences.
And I think the interesting thing is that, again,
why we listen, while all this innovation has happened
on sort of how we create and how we deliver audio,
why we listen is still fundamentally the same, right?
That it's that connection and the science of it,
the intimacy that's really special about audio.
So given all the breadth of content that's out there now,
I think the big challenge is discovery really,
finding the things that resonate with you.
It's fantastic to see all these creators
having the opportunity to distribute,
but how do we actually find what we love?
And I think that there's things like algorithms
and of course, with Pandora,
we've had a great algorithm for music discovery
that we continue to perfect.
But what's really special I think about SiriusXM
is the hosts and the programmers that we have
who are really just experts in their fields
and they love what they do.
They love the genre
or the category of interests that they focus on,
and that shows up in the content.
And that's I think why listeners have
built these real connections with our hosts.
And it's just such a big part of who we are at Sirius XM
to make sure that it's humans creating this content
and curating it and bringing it to our audiences.
And look, I think creators like yourself have been able
to leverage the broader SiriusXM podcast network
to build your audiences, build your fanbases,
and build your brands ultimately.
<v ->And learning from one another, it's been great.</v>
<v ->So I have a question for you now,</v>
and I think we've all heard the 2024 election
was sort of the year of the podcast, right?
And it's been amazing to see that more
and more people have gravitated toward podcasts
as a result around the world.
And I think we're starting to really see
the true power of the podcaster.
So I think the influence that you have
at the top of your game is phenomenal.
And I wanted to ask you a few questions about that
because as you think about podcasting,
what do you think it is about that or audio in general
that really fosters this connection with audiences?
<v ->I mean, I think at the core of it, it is the intimacy.</v>
And I mean, we're in a world where we are just inundated
with so much, and it's headlines, it's clickbait,
it's these fast videos
and there's very few mediums where you get to spend time
with the same person for hours a week,
week after week, year after year.
And what we've built in podcasting,
myself and other podcasters is a relationship.
And I think a relationship with someone who has influence
and who has an audience, that is so different,
I mean, it's the way that you talk to your friends
and you trust their opinions.
Like you said, we've become these surrogate friends
for people and they've watched us grow up and change
and change our minds and learn new things.
And we've almost done that together.
I think what I always say about podcasting
that's so beautiful is I think it's
one of the first like two-way mediums
where we're not just broadcasting this out,
but we are really getting feedback from our listeners
who feel like they know us.
And so I think they're trusting us
because they've watched us be consistent,
day in, day out, week in, week out, year over year.
And I think that builds a relationship that
you just cannot build with one post
or with one 30 second video.
<v ->And was there a moment where you felt this big shift,</v>
either for you personally with your podcast
or just the industry in general?
<v ->I think it was when people</v>
stopped asking what is a podcast?
There was so long where people just didn't,
they didn't know the reach we had or the value we bring.
It was just everyone's side hobby.
And so I think when people started really recognizing,
I feel like that shift really happened in like '21, '22,
at least for us,
where it was no longer what is a podcast,
I think that's when people really started understanding
the power and the reach of them.
<v ->It's amazing because the technology has been around</v>
for 15 years, right?
But it really has only come
to the forefront I think in terms
of audience expansion in the last four or five years
as you said.
So because you have such an incredible audience
and brand and impact,
how do you think about the responsibility you take on,
especially with the storytelling you do
in terms of true crime,
and whether it's the work you do advocating for victims
or for those wrongly convicted
or picking a brand partner,
how do you think about that responsibility to the audience,
given the trust they have in you?
<v ->I always say I don't want to be an influencer.</v>
I want to have influence.
And I think the way that you do that
is through authenticity.
And so that's the thing that I've really been very careful
of never losing is I respect so much the people
who listen and who are willing to give me, again,
not 30 seconds of their day, but hours of their week.
And I think showing them,
like we've got every episode we've ever made
like since 2018 when we were babies are out there.
And I think seeing how we've grown,
when we've made mistakes,
when we've learned from them, when we've changed our minds,
like I want to build a world that is open to new things,
new ideas to open their hearts, open their minds.
And I think that is so much of the responsibility
for me is putting myself out there is that is as well
is not asking people to do something I'm not willing to do.
And it is, it's how I feel about the content.
Again, when I think about the content,
I want people to be open-minded, have open hearts,
be willing to change your mind,
be willing to learn something new.
And I think if they're willing to do that with me,
they also then deeply trust me
when I tell them what my favorite toilet paper is.
And I don't take that lightly.
And I think once you start
losing your authenticity even in one area,
it affects everything.
So when you talk about advertisers,
I'm so strict about what we do and who we partner with,
because I think the second that becomes false,
everything I'm saying,
I don't want them to look at that the same way.
<v ->Yeah, you wanna make sure you have</v>
that trust across the board.
<v ->Exactly.</v>
<v ->So one of the biggest shifts in the audio landscape</v>
is the move to incorporate more video and more social.
And as a creator, I think you've said before
that you don't believe in video just for videos.
And I tend to agree with that, by the way.
Can you talk a little bit about your perspectives
on this, video, social, other platforms,
how you leverage them?
<v ->Yeah, I mean, when I created the podcast, like I said,</v>
I was creating it with audio in mind.
I wasn't just talking for talking's sake.
I thought about the way people envision things
and put themselves in there,
and it didn't necessarily one for one translate to video.
And so many people said to me like,
they just wanna see you,
just put a camera on while you're in the studio.
They just wanna see you. It'll be really easy.
And like the second you tell me something's really easy,
I'm like it's probably not the thing I should be doing.
So when I think about video,
when I think about it for the content
we're currently making,
I want to give people the same experience
that they had listening,
which has taken a lot of time.
And we just started putting out video episodes
of "Crime Junkie" because I took a lot of time
hearing from people, what does it feel like to you,
what do you imagine, what is it like?
And all of them said,
I think I'm on the same couch with you
and we're all just like telling a story
and we're in the living room,
and we wanted to bring that experience to life
because I felt like if I did video wrong,
it could take away from everything I've done in audio.
But I also think that there's opportunities for us
to expand into YouTube, to TikTok, to Instagram,
all these different socials in the short form,
what are people responding to there?
But I think you have to make specific content
for those things.
<v ->So it's additive.</v>
<v ->Yeah, it's not just taking it away</v>
and it's how do you bring people into your network,
into your sphere, if you will,
by creating something they like over here
and saying, "Hey, you didn't know about us,
but come over here, we've got something else."
And I think that that's the way that
you leverage that appropriately.
And you, I mean, you've made a name for yourself in audio
as well in the car specifically.
What do you think about the new landscape?
Like how are you really tackling changes in consumption?
<v ->Yeah, so we're focusing on our strengths,</v>
rather than chasing trends.
So I think kind of how you talked about video,
we've been audio first all this time,
and we'll use video where it makes sense for us.
But audio, and again,
there's been a lot of shifts from audio into video,
like we talked about with podcasting.
There's also been a lot of shifts into audio, right?
And that could be print in particular,
whether it's news articles or it's audio books, right?
So there's just this, I think, shift into audio
that is critical in terms of thinking about
what should be audio first.
And given our focus on the car,
and we are doubling down on that today
because it's really our stronghold,
audio makes the most sense in the car,
and that's gonna be true for many years to come.
I don't think we're gonna be in self-driving cars
watching video any time in the near future.
And the car is very much the perfect venue
for audio and again,
creating that companionship while you are driving
and moving around.
And I think that
our presence in the car is indicative
of that experience, right?
So radio for instance
has just about 75% share of ear in the car,
and that's across AM, FM, and SiriusXM.
SiriusXM has held this premium position in the car
and we've been really the leader there,
bigger than any other streaming provider
in terms of share of ear in the car.
And that's been critical
and important in establishing our value proposition.
And I think the car is also really the final frontier
as you think about, you talked about advertising
in terms of digital ad-supported media,
and there's an opportunity for us,
particularly with the strength we have in the car
to provide other ad-supported opportunities within the car
in a much more targeted way than say AM FM could do.
But we're gonna continue
to expand into adjacencies where it makes sense
to support our core business.
And that could be, of course, in streaming,
we talked a lot about how streaming really reinforces
our core value proposition.
We've launched across Tesla models, we have 360L,
it's how our customers consume our service
outside of the car.
And as a technology,
it supports broadening our reach,
it supports more personalization.
We talked about how do we enhance discovery,
and streaming provides a lot of that opportunity
given its two-way nature.
And I think there's also just opportunities
to provide more control of the content
to really find what you want and customize it.
And then we've made investments in podcasting as well
as you know as we've increased the network of podcasts
that we have across SiriusXM.
And that really allows us
to take all the advertising capabilities we have
and extend it beyond Pandora into podcasting
and make sure that advertisers have the breadth
of that reach across medium.
And we've been very supportive of the open podcast ecosystem
as we have with "Crime Junkie"
and the rest of your network,
making sure that it's available on all platforms,
which appeals to listeners of course
and advertisers as well
to make sure that they've got that expansive reach.
But we found ways I think also working with you
to create a "Crime Junkie" radio channel,
which works really well for the SiriusXM audience
and enhances the exclusive content that we have at SiriusXM.
And then we talked a bit about video and social,
and I think video for us,
we think similarly that it needs
to be additive to the experience.
So we will have long form exclusive video at SiriusXM
primarily in the app where
customers are more likely to consume video than in the car.
And so, for instance, like with Howard Stern,
it's very popular to have the long-form video in the app.
But also I think it's important,
as we talked about for marketing, right?
You wanna have shorter form clips in video
distributed on social.
We think there's opportunities to extend
advertiser relationships to be selling across social,
audio, and video to create these
sort of 360 sponsorship opportunities.
And I think there's another opportunity for us
to look at creating snackable forms
of content within SiriusXM too,
take advantage of the shift I think
in listener and in video towards shorter form content,
but in a way that makes sense for SiriusXM.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
<v ->Okay, so let's talk about AI.</v>
So lots of changes as a result of AI
and there's voice cloning,
there's generative AI podcasts
starting to flood the scene.
What's your perspective as a creator
and a leader in audio
and where do you see AI fitting in
enhancing your experience or even maybe competing with you?
<v ->Yeah, well, as far as like the cloning,</v>
I like to keep them on their toes.
I have a toddler who gets me sick about like once a quarter,
just so they like can't quite do it.
But I think that for us,
like I'm really committed to not ever do.
So like I don't use AI for any of our voices,
any of our ads, any of our scripts,
like in the creative process,
very much the way that you guys
appreciate the human experience, so do we.
I actually think that's our competitive advantage right now.
The more and more we're going
to be getting these AI podcasts and all of that,
I think the more and more people
will be craving that genuine connection
and looking to have that human touch and feel.
But we are using AI I think in really interesting ways.
So obviously like in a lot of our IT and security.
But what we've recently started doing is how do we use AI
to help us make the best experience for our listeners?
So I've always been very focused on the listener experience.
I tell a lot of people this,
the very first person I ever hired at my company
was a fan engagement person to make sure
all the emails are getting read,
the DMs are getting answered.
And what we've done is we have kind of integrated
all of this, all of the feedback, all the comments,
DMs, emails that we get into Zendesk into this one place.
And that's where our whole team responds from.
And we don't use AI to even respond to them,
like we want humans interacting.
But we've recently started using AI
to aggregate the thousands and thousands of messages,
comments, whatever it is that we get after a single episode.
And then we say,
what were they saying about this episode?
Like what was the sentiment?
Was it positive, negative, neutral?
What did they like?
What are the elements of this that they're talking about?
So we can really make a feedback loop into the content.
<v ->So extracting the key themes.</v>
<v ->Yeah, what are they responding to,</v>
positively or negatively,
how do we, because it's just enabling us to do
that fan engagement experience a little bit quicker
to influence what we're making.
But we're not being influenced by AI.
We're using AI to let our audience influence us.
Which again is that circle I was talking about
of that feedback loop and creating
that two-way relationship,
which I think is so important.
<v ->Yeah, yeah, agreed.</v>
That's I think very important to us too.
And we see it similarly as
enhancing the experience as opposed
to providing the experience.
So AI and generative AI can be incredibly powerful
when they're used appropriately,
when there's an opportunity to go
beyond kind of the gimmicky examples
you hear of I think many times recently,
and really dive into the real promise of it.
And I think that there's a lot of examples at SiriusXM,
whether it's the precursor of AI,
which was machine learning
and the Pandora algorithm for music discovery
and the music genome project.
And today, I think for us,
we're looking at ways to continue to leverage AI
to support the business,
and in similar ways that you talked about,
like how do we use it to solve
for this discovery problem, right?
And really find ways for our listeners
to dig into the content that they really love.
And that could be attracting new customers
into the service by using these other marketing channels
and really finding opportunities
to connect with the right customers of the right content.
Also, just for our listener base,
because the breadth of content we have on the platform
is so extensive that we can use AI
to better serve up recommendations
as to other things you might like
based on what you're listening,
we can tailor your listening experience for the time of day
or the location as to where you might be.
And I think all of those things facilitate
this need to really connect with the content
that's really important to you.
But in terms of, and look, we have synthetic voices
you talked a little bit about,
you're not using that today,
but I think there's an opportunity
for advertisers who are creating ads
to bring in smaller advertisers to leverage AI
to create ads with synthetic voices,
to adapt them for different audiences,
and for them to scale their campaigns using AI
where it's not necessarily gonna be relevant
or appropriate to have a direct sales person involved
in that effort.
So there's lots of opportunities I think
to be more efficient
and to provide a better personalized experience using AI.
But where I would say we very much agree
is that while I think you see this increase
of technology and AI in creating content,
and we are doubling down on humans creating content,
like we really fundamentally believe
people can tell the difference.
And that is just foundational to the connection
that audio provides.
<v ->I agree.</v>
<v ->So when you look back at the audio landscape</v>
and you think about getting started, and when was that?
What year did you actually get started?
<v ->December of 2017.</v>
<v ->It's not that long ago really.</v>
<v ->I say podcast years are like dog years though.</v>
<v ->I mean, amazing though wwhat you've been able to create</v>
in that time period, really.
But what are the biggest challenges you think
and opportunities facing creators today?
<v ->It's stuff we've hit on already.</v>
I think the biggest challenge right now is discoverability.
I think it was a challenge back in 2017,
and just as there have been more and more podcasts
that have come as the space has kind of
become more consolidated into networks,
it is harder and harder for independent creators
to get discovered and to make those connections.
So I think discoverability is important.
I think the unique benefit that they'll have is,
and it's what I tell everyone is there's still stuff
missing from the space.
It's creating something new and something fresh.
So when we started "Crime Junkie,"
there was no show formatted the way that we're formatted
where someone tells the story
and then you have a co-host really like sitting
on behalf of the listeners.
There's a ton of those shows now.
And so I always tell people,
don't just create the thing
that you like listening to,
there's so much opportunity for uniqueness,
and as we keep talking about AI,
uniqueness and that human factor
is gonna continue to be the advantage
for someone new coming in, I really believe.
<v ->Absolutely. Agreed.</v>
<v ->So, there are challenges and opportunities ahead.</v>
What's inspiring you today? So what's the message?
We're running out of time a little bit,
but what's the message that you want
to leave the audience with?
Like when you look ahead,
what are the innovations that are happening
that's exciting you, what technology is exciting you,
like specifically within audio, like, where are we going?
I said you're in the driver's seat, tell us.
<v ->Well it's really inspiring as we talked about</v>
to see the technology supporting all of these creators,
whether it be musicians or podcasters,
letting them find new audiences
and really pursuing their dreams.
I think that's incredibly inspiring, right?
That just really wasn't possible
before the advent of streaming I think,
and increasingly with AI supporting that.
But I think, I guess the most fun part of my job
is just seeing all the great talent
coming through our offices and our studios that
whether it's a new band or a new show or a new podcast,
I love discovering new audio and I can't get enough of it.
So I mean, again, seeing people come through the halls,
that's something that not everyone can do.
I wish we could find a way to scale that.
<v ->Your offices are the coolest offices.</v>
<v ->It is really fun, lots of people crossing paths</v>
in the lobby that you would never think would come together.
So it is really special to be able to have that.
And that's what we're looking to really bring
to our listeners and in the way that we curate.
And I think also just there's this epidemic of loneliness,
and I think audio really plays a special role in that.
And I don't mean for that to feel self-serving.
I really do believe it's like what you talked about.
You create this amazing connection with a listener.
It's how you tell stories, and it's just fundamental
to what we do every day at SiriusXM
is find these opportunities to bring storytellers,
to bring artists and musicians to our listener base.
And it's really inspiring
to get to be a part of that every day.
And look, we're gonna continue to leverage technology.
I mean, I think in some ways we think of ourselves
as sort of the anti-AI,
that we wanna be focused on human creation
and curation of content.
But there's certainly a role for technology
like we talked about in terms of
how we deliver audio to our customers.
And for us, that means leveraging streaming in the car
as a compliment to satellite
to deliver more personalized experiences.
I think there's real demand
for live, linear content alongside time shifting
and on-demand.
And we can bring both of those together
with our 360L listening experience.
And it's easier than ever now with things like AI
to allow for discovery in the car and outside of the car.
And I think one of the things that's really exciting
is to be working with great talent like yourself
and have the opportunity
to hopefully give you a bigger platform
and have an opportunity to get
in front of the SiriusXM audience
and our loyal subscribers with different forms of audio
that make sense for our service.
And I think it's a really incredible opportunity
to be part of SiriusXM,
and it's a great time at the company,
we have a lot more coming,
and I think you and I can probably agree that
it's a fascinating time to be part of audio,
and the future of audio is extremely bright.
<v ->Well thank you.</v>
<v ->So thank you</v>
for your time today.
Thank you everyone.
<v ->Thank you all.</v>