All right.
Welcome, everybody.
My name is Logan Plaster.
I'm the Chief Content Officer at Startup Health,
excited to be moderating this panel today.
Panel's called Views from the Top.
And we've got a really nice diverse set of perspectives
in healthcare leadership across health systems,
big tech, big pharma.
And we're gonna talk about big challenges
and big opportunities.
We've got David Holmberg, CEO of Highmark Health.
We've got Dr. Janice Nevin, the CEO of ChristianaCare.
We've got Dr. Michael Howell,
the chief clinical officer at Google.
And we've got Diogo Rau,
the chief information officer at Eli Lilly.
So two big objectives for today's conversation.
Obviously, these folks are, or you all,
I'm gonna try to talk to you and keep this conversational.
You are helping to helm health transformation today
in many ways.
And so part of the goal here is to pull back the curtain
on how you're thinking, where you're steering,
maybe some of the icebergs that you're seeing
and how to avoid them.
But we also want this to be a conversation,
a convergence of your own ideas,
'cause my guess is you don't have many opportunities
to be on a Zoom call with the four of you
and to bounce ideas between health system thinking,
pharmaceutical innovation thinking,
what Google is working on.
And so as we go through some of these sort
of high level issues, I also want to hear some crosstalk
and some conversations.
So let's start with some basic introductions.
We're gonna go down the line starting with David.
Tell us about your role
and tell us one of your biggest objectives
in the business for 2025.
<v ->Well, I'm David Holmberg.</v>
I'm CEO of Highmark Health.
Highmark Health is a integrated health system
and health plan based in Pittsburgh.
So, you know, we're the blue plan for four states.
We also have a hospital system
with 14 hospitals in Western Pennsylvania.
And we have a technology company
that, you know, is pretty advanced in terms of capabilities
and the work that we're trying to do.
You know, from our perspective, the biggest challenge,
I mean, obviously, the environment we're in
is very difficult right now.
And, you know, we believe very strongly that in 2025,
we've gotta start to move some things forward
and be different and innovate and maybe show progress
on, you know, some of the consumer things.
And just to give you a perspective,
I'm a very unconventional healthcare CEO.
I started my career in the jewelry business.
Ultimately got into the optical business,
and that's how I ended up in healthcare.
<v Logan>What's one thing you've carried</v>
from being a jeweler to being a head of a health system?
<v ->Well, when you're selling jewel.</v>
Well, first of all, I am very popular at Christmas time
'cause I can get you out of trouble.
Whatever trouble you've gotten yourself into, you know.
For me, you know, when you're selling jewelry,
you're selling something that people want but don't need.
And in healthcare, they need us but sometimes don't want us.
And so we have to figure out a way to meet people
where they're at, treat 'em like consumers,
maybe break the paradigm of a health, you know, insurer
or health system or pharma company, whatever it might be,
and take a different approach that's been done.
<v Logan>Nice.</v>
Dr. Nevin.
<v ->Thanks.</v>
Good afternoon.
Dr. Janice Nevin.
I'm the president and CEO of ChristianaCare.
I am a primary care physician by training,
grew up with the biopsychosocial model of care
and so firmly believe in how care needs to be integrated
in order to achieve health.
And I think, again, when we think about technology,
there's a great opportunity with technology
to help us do that.
We are large regional,
community-based academic health system.
We take care of people throughout the state of Delaware
as well as in the contiguous counties in Maryland,
Southeastern Pennsylvania, and New Jersey.
We are very committed to population health,
to value-based care.
You know, we believe that there is a better way
to care for people to really drive health
that the hospital should be the place of last resort.
And again, as I think about the future,
I think about 2025.
Again, I just think there's an incredible opportunity
given the time in which we find ourselves,
the technology that's available to us
to really help solve for some of the very troubling issues
that we have in healthcare.
Whether it be our ability to care
for a significantly growing elderly population
where an ability to support our workforce,
which is dwindling and has significant issues with burnout.
And also to solve for the financial issues
so that we can make care more affordable.
And that's really where we're focused.
<v ->Thanks.</v>
Dr. Howell.
<v ->I'm Michael Howell.</v>
I work at Google.
I'm the company's chief clinical officer,
which if it sounds like a made up job title
for the best job in the world possible that that's true.
And my teams work across the things that Google does
that have an important impact in health.
And so those are things
like, you know, a few hundred million people a day come
to search, ask questions about their health.
They're around 200 billion health related YouTube videos
that are viewed a year.
There are 8 billion people on the planet.
But also our work with enterprises through Google Cloud
through inventing new kinds of math.
You know, two of my coworkers last month received
their Nobel Prize for protein folding.
And then I come from a background of I took care
of sick people for a long time.
I'm a pulmonary critical care doc in between 1995-1995.
And 2017, I was either training or practicing as an ICU doc
and then ran parts of health systems.
And so I would say that, you know, the things
to know about us are we have six products
that more than 2 billion people use every month.
By definition, that tells you that we have to think
on a global scale.
And that the other is that is we invent new kinds of math
and new kinds of AI.
We work really hard to make those available for other folks
to build on top of.
<v ->Quick follow up, where do you see Google Health</v>
on YouTube sort of shifting
vis-a-vis the Google TV sort of announcement
and kinda where that's heading?
<v ->Yeah, there are a few things.</v>
So one is in the health information quality space there,
we worked with the National Academy of Medicine
and the World Health Organization who defined principles
for what high quality health information is.
And so, you know, if you search for the most common queries,
you'll see this thing at the top
that says from health sources.
And then we'll tell you like that this video
is from, you know, ChristianaCare,
which has licensed hospitals in the United States,
or for doctors, nurses,
and licensed mental health professionals.
It will tell you it's a licensed physician
or a licensed nurse.
We do actually give verified licenses and things like that.
And then I think the other thing
that we've worked on really hard for accessibility
is related to language.
And so we have AI tools that help people move
from their native language
to more than a hundred other languages.
You know, we have really expanding availability
of high quality information.
<v Logan>Okay.</v>
Diogo Rau, What are you working on?
<v ->Great.</v>
Hey everyone, my name is Diogo Rau
and I am at Eli Lilly and Company.
We are a company that makes medicines
and my job is to run technology,
run everything from the technology that we use in discovery
to the technology we use in the consumer experience.
Speaking of the consumer experience,
it's awesome to be here at CES.
I've had a grin on my face all day
as I've seen all kinds of really cool technology.
Actually, I see a few people out there smiling right now.
Now, let me ask you about the last time you got medicine.
Did that make you smile,
especially when you had to pay the copay?
I bet not.
That is something we need to change.
Like this industry is stuck in the wrong century.
Like we need to modernize this consumer experience,
at least bring it into the late 20th century.
Actually, I'd really like to bring it into the 21st century,
but it's time to change that consumer experience.
That's really the problem that I wanna go after this year.
<v ->Awesome.</v>
Okay, I wanna start our conversation,
although it's already begun.
Talking about the greatest challenges you're seeing
in health and in health innovation within your sphere.
At Startup Health, we coach hundreds of founders
and often come back to the traditional SWAT chart,
the understanding that if you understand your weaknesses
and threats, it opens up opportunities for innovation
and expansion.
And so I really want to go down the line
and talk about the greatest challenge
that you're seeing in 2025, and then we'll come back around
towards kinda how that opens up opportunities
for innovation.
So David.
<v ->Well, the greatest challenge we're seeing in 2025</v>
is, you know, we have a big portion of the country
that's not satisfied with the healthcare system,
and that includes all of us.
And, you know, and I think you have this in this panel,
we all represent different components
of the healthcare system.
You know, we have the financing of care,
we have the delivery of care, we have technology,
we've got pharmaceuticals.
Pharmaceuticals are running 30%
of claims, you know, expense today.
And that reflects the success and the work
that they're doing to create super drugs
and things that are gonna make a difference.
And the biggest challenge we see
is we're all working in silos.
You know, if we wanna change healthcare in 2025 and beyond,
we've gotta get at the table together
and work on some of these things in a collaborative front.
And that's what we were talking about
before we started today is, you know, we're working
with Christiana and Delaware on some unique things.
You know, we're working with Lily on some unique things,
but I do believe that's the biggest challenge
is we're all in silos, we all have more data
than we know what to do with, and we're lacking insights
because we're not on the same team on any given issue.
<v ->Okay.</v>
And a reminder that if anyone wants to jump in
on a response, you're welcome to.
So, Dr. Nevin?
<v ->Yeah, I would just really underscore</v>
that I was gonna say it at some point.
I think not only do we function in silos,
we tend to point fingers at each other.
And I think, you know, if we've learned nothing
over the last couple of months,
we really need to come together
and start bringing our collective capabilities
to the table to solve for what our very real challenges.
You know, I spend an awful lot of time thinking
about people being a health system provider.
We are either taking care of people, families, communities,
or we have people that we have to take care of
who are fulfilling that role.
And, you know, as I mentioned in the opening,
it's becoming increasingly challenging
for people who need care to be able to access care.
And so we really have to think creatively, innovatively,
think about how we use technology to support our people
so that they can do what they came to healthcare to do,
which is provide that human touch.
Technology is an absolutely essential critical tool.
We need to figure out how to use it
in ways that are gonna have impact.
But when someone is suffering, they want that human touch
and we need to ensure that we will be able to do that.
We've done a couple of things at ChristianaCare
and an effort to meet that challenge.
I think, you know, the, the promise of ambient voice
in helping solve for some of the administrative issues
that result in burnout.
I'm very excited about that.
We also have deployed Moxie.
Moxie is a collaborative robot.
Moxie essentially takes non-value added tasks off the hands
of bedside nurses.
And to date, I think Moxie has saved something
like 8 million hours of work
for nurses and patient care technicians.
So, again, we've gotta think ultimately in healthcare,
we take care of people and we need people,
we'll never have enough.
So I spent a lot of time, you know,
thinking about worrying about how the people that we serve
are gonna be able to get the care that they need
and how I and we can do a better job
of supporting those that provide that care.
<v ->Michael, maybe you can lean in</v>
on some of the AI challenges that you're seeing
and how that even feeds into.
I think, what we heard were people challenges
and silo challenges, community challenges.
But then on the tech side,
I think you and Diogo can feed into that.
<v ->You mean technology is a tool, right,</v>
to solve a problem.
And so what is the problem?
I think I would probably say the same thing
that patient-centered care, by definition,
doesn't care where the patient is.
We should take care of them whenever they need it
with as little effort and as little expense as possible
to create the most health on the planet.
The WHO says that 4.5 billion people don't have access
to essential health services.
That's not only outside the United States.
You know, if you talk to medical schools
who are recruiting faculty,
they can't find primary care with a reasonable wait time
for the faculty that they're recruiting.
And it's not because the doctors aren't working hard
or the nurses aren't working hard
or the physical therapists aren't working hard
or the pharmacists aren't working hard.
It's because of the system that we, to quote Don Berwick,
the system that we have is perfectly designed
to achieve the outcomes that it achieves.
And so we need to think about that.
And technology is an important tool for that.
AI is a foundational general purpose technology
like electricity or connectivity.
And so it may have impacts across all of those.
And certainly, we see the early targets being eliminated.
I can tell a fellow lean practitioner over here,
eliminating the non-value added work that is huge part
of being successful in healthcare.
<v ->So just to follow up quickly,</v>
that's sort of like the macro challenge.
I'm curious, as you look at 2025 in your specific work,
what's a specific challenge that might keep you up at night?
<v ->Yeah, 2023 was the year of people experimenting</v>
with large language models.
getting real value out of generative AI.
to do things in the real world around them
to use of tools and other systems.
That's a whole new set of challenges that will require a lot
of change management for use in healthcare
and in every industry.
<v Logan>Diogo.</v>
<v ->Well, a lot going on in 2025,</v>
but if I had to put one thing out there on the radar,
it's around the safety of our medicines.
Now, that's not a hot, sexy topic,
but it actually is really important right now
because something big is happening in our world
that is the rise of the medicines to treat obesity.
There are a couple on the market,
there are many more coming.
These are expensive medicines
that many plans choose not to cover,
so that means the cash price is really expensive.
What happens when you have a hot product
that's really expensive?
You start getting a lot of fakes out there.
Now, it's one thing if you get a fake movie
or get a copy of something or a fake handbag.
How much harm is that really going to do?
When you're talking about a fake medicine,
something that you inject in your body.
At best, a fake medicine is going to do no harm.
At worst, the consequences could be absolutely catastrophic.
This is something we are just at the beginning of.
And I think we need to start turning our focus to it in 2025
because this industry really needs to change.
This industry, the medicines industry
and the healthcare industry has a terrible history.
If you go all the way back 150 years, like around the time
that Lilly was started.
Lilly in fact was started to counteract snake oil
and all the fake medicines that were out there.
We are about to hit that again,
thanks to the rise in medicines to treat obesity,
the economic potential for counterfeiters out there.
So we're working on that really hard.
We've got some really cool consumer kinds of technology
we'd be happy to talk about,
bringing in NFC and other things like that.
But this is something that we're going to have to address
before people get hurt in a big way.
<v ->I wanna talk about tech convergence.</v>
We're here at CES and one of the really exciting things
about being on the floor is that the health tech zone
is next to the vacuums, the home tech,
and you can go see the auto tech personal wellness tech
and the world's collide.
The world's collide.
And so when you're in health,
you start to connect these dots,
you start to see how this should play with that,
should play with this,
or how it should and it never does,
so you start to see the gaps as well.
So I'd like to go down the line
and hear what convergence you would like to see happen.
Maybe it's something that you'd like to have somebody pitch
to you and maybe you're seeing elements of it,
maybe it hasn't happened yet,
but how would you like to see the dots connected
based off of some of the tech you're seeing here.
David?
<v ->Well, I mean, it's been a fascinating few days.</v>
I mean, I had a chance to walk the floor.
I mean, there was a lot of tech that's looking for a market.
I was looking at the tech and saying, okay,
how do we solve an existing problem
that's in the healthcare system
that, you know, we're trying to deal with?
And being both a payer and a provider of care,
we get to see both sides of the equation.
And when it's out of balance, I mean, it can be devastating.
So what I'm excited about was, you know, I truly believe
that if we're going to get this right as a country,
we're gonna have to innovate our way out.
And the way that'll happen
is by, you know, getting the smart people in the room
and saying, these are the five problems
that are most relevant that could make a difference,
that could deal with, you know, the fakes
and all the other stuff that we agree upon.
And then what do you have in your tool chest that'll work?
So I jokingly, for those of you who are a little bit older,
if you remember "The Gong Show", you know,
it was on television a few years ago.
You know, we have run that several times
where we invite anyone in who's got an innovative idea
that improves care, improves outcomes,
and that addresses affordability.
And we'll listen to 'em and we'll try to find a way,
you know, to pilot it.
We're doing that with ambient listening for our clinicians.
That's been a big space.
So we had a bunch of things
that we saw the last couple of days.
Everything from sensors that they were using
with the military to determine if a uniform was wet,
was it blood or was it water?
<v ->Remind me how many patients generally</v>
your health system deals with.
<v ->So we'll see about two and a half million patients a year.</v>
<v ->Yeah.</v>
I ask that because, you know, all the startups
that I work with would love nothing better than to get in
with a health system that would plug them
into a big patient population.
It's the, you know, million dollars sort of ticket.
What are you looking for in an innovative startup
that would show you that they're ready
to take on a health system?
<v ->Yeah, so typically, what we look for obviously</v>
is we wanna make sure that, you know, the service,
the product, the solution, you know, is sound and solid
and stands up.
We wanna be able to pilot it, you know,
'cause we have 7 million lives that we insure,
two and a half million patients that we see.
And if we can take a device or whatever it might be,
and, you know, one of our strengths is our ability
to put it into the marketplace fairly quickly.
But our objective is they all have to be scalable.
So we don't wanna do it for 10 people.
You know, we need to know that if this works,
that we will approve it for payment and we will roll it out
and make sure it's part of the formulary.
<v ->Dr. Nevin, same question for you.</v>
I'm particularly interested in your view on the home
and care being extended into the home as well.
<v ->Yeah, absolutely.</v>
And I would just, again, I think David and I,
we do have a partnership
and we tend to agree on a lot of things.
I agree with everything that you said.
Yeah, I mean, I think my worry about all of this
is you may know that traditional healthcare
is not generally very adventurous.
We tend to be very traditional.
And I worry that we are going to sort of lose this moment
in time because the technology opportunity,
particularly I think with AI and generative AI
to really solve for some of these big issues
that we've struggled with for decades, the time is now.
And so I think it is absolutely imperative
that we work together and we work with these new companies,
so that as they're creating their product,
they can deeply understand the problems
that we're trying to solve.
I am a firm believer that the home
can be a really important place for care.
We have long had a primary care at home program
for the frail list of the frail elderly.
It gets excellent outcomes
and it is significantly less expensive.
It costs Medicare much less
when we take care of patients that way.
We more recently launched a hospital at home program
using the CMS waiver.
So patients who qualify for admission,
an inpatient admission to the hospital
can now be taken care of at home.
And the technology that supports that, again,
it's just has been tremendous.
Patients absolutely love it.
Families love it.
It solves for some of the issues around equity, frankly,
because it helps solve for culture and language
and food and so forth.
The quality outcomes exceed those
in bricks and mortar setting.
And again, we're still trying to better understand cost,
but there is extremely promising.
Again, it is a way that helps us get to more affordability.
We recently launched essentially skilled nursing care
in the home.
And our vision is to be able to provide the continuum
of care in the home.
And again, to me, you know,
pilots and dabbling are really important.
I would love to see this happen at scale
and not just at, you know, ChristianaCare
and the I think 130 health systems that are doing this,
but this becomes a different way of providing care.
It's better, it's safer and it costs less.
<v ->Michael, what tech convergence are you most excited about?</v>
<v ->I'm excited about the timing.</v>
So there's a tendency to think
that everything we see is the first time in history.
And there's this thing called the productivity paradox.
That if you look at introductions
of general purpose technologies, like if you go back
to electricity, when factories got electricity,
they didn't redesign the work, they replaced the water wheel
with a big central motor.
And it took 10, 15, 20 years to figure out
that you could redesign the work around the new technology.
Same thing happened in banking
with the introduction of computers.
It wasn't that ATMs appeared when computers first came in.
Well, when did we first digitize US healthcare?
And so from a historical standpoint, we're at the right time
where you might expect to see care actually get redesigned.
We certainly see that with partners like Highmark
of doing these really leading edge things for it.
And so I'm especially excited about the fact
that the things that two years ago no lab in the world
could do them.
You know, nine months ago, we got it working, you know,
nearly melting the research computers
and now our partners can actually build on top of it
in a way that changes who can design the final mile
of technology.
I'm excited about that.
<v Logan>Diogo, over to you.</v>
<v ->I'm excited just about bringing it all together</v>
and what you can do.
One of the reasons why I'm excited about that
is because I'd like to get rid to the extent possible
of patient reported outcomes.
That's the endpoint of many clinical trials.
It's how the patient feels versus some objective measure.
And many of you that are healthcare providers
will know some of these standards,
like the six minute walk test,
which measures how far can you walk in six minutes
when you're in a doctor's office.
Maybe you're having a good day,
maybe you're having a bad day,
but you're getting one point in time.
Or if you wanna measure
whether your medicine affects sleepiness
or prevents daytime sleepiness,
there's a thing called the Epworth Sleepiness score.
You ask the patient once every few months,
how often do you feel sleepy,
or doing the following eight activities.
And you get a single point in time.
Why do we need to be doing that when we are in 2025 now?
We're all wearing these on our wrists.
Why do you need to have somebody do a six minute walk
in the doctor's office instead of taking in all of that data
over the past six months?
We've actually done that in some of our studies.
We've added on actigraphy in the middle of a study
that still had a patient reported outcome
'cause that's what the regulators like to see.
And we've seen that, wow, you can get so much richer data,
you can find out that not only is the person walking
and awake during the day, but they're actually active
and they're doing better on the medicine.
You can get much, much, much richer data
if you bring it all together
and you look at it holistically.
So I would just like to bring all of this data together,
converge everything, take a look at it,
let the machines do the work,
let the machines do the interpretation
and get ourselves out of the business
of looking at single data points spaced weeks
or months apart.
<v ->I've got a follow up that I wanna ask</v>
to the whole group and whoever wants to jump in,
it's really about taking action.
Dr. Nevin, you'd said you don't wanna miss this opportunity
and that we're at a specific moment in time.
I couldn't agree with you more.
And we've got a room full of people
who can be change makers
who can really take action in their sphere of influence.
And so I want someone from this group
or multiple people to make a recommendation
about how we can make sure we don't miss this moment.
<v ->I mean, I think it goes to what we've discussed</v>
is we really have to work together.
You know, healthcare is extremely complex
and I know we've probably all had the experience
of, you know, a great piece of technology has been created,
but no one has really thought about how it's going
to function inside the health system.
And we have got to work together.
You know, I think one of David mentioned
that we have a partnership,
we have a very unique joint venture
between our two organizations.
We do not have an insurance arm.
And we both organizations believe we need
to change care delivery.
We need at the same time the opportunities
to change how it gets paid for.
And because we are having those conversations,
we're also talking about how can we then use technology
to solve for some of those vexing issues
that get in the way of being able to do that.
Having technology partners in that conversation
and early in that conversation
is ultimately gonna be the most helpful.
<v ->David, your thoughts on encouraging collaboration</v>
in this environment that is naturally build silos?
<v ->Well, I think at least my experience</v>
has been that when you have your incentives aligned,
you have your metrics aligned.
I mean it really is a three-legged stool.
What you measure, you know, what you evaluate,
and what you compensate for ultimately changes.
And I mean, you know, Lily and Highmark and a HN
in Western Pennsylvania, you know, prove
that during the pandemic where we were able, you know,
to put shots in arms for 650,000 people
and stem the tide during the pandemic.
And what that took
was everybody taking themselves back one step, you know,
all the A personalities and instead say,
what are we solving for?
How do we get this done and let's go?
And, you know, I think Janice, just the work
that we're doing in Delaware together,
the thing that we've eliminated, it's full risk,
up and downside risk.
And so when her docs are saying, no, this isn't what works,
you know, we're changing medical policy
and we're trying to address that
or we're showing things that are working in other markets
that they might wanna consider.
<v Logan>Yeah.</v>
<v ->Can I take a dissenting view to part of it?</v>
Or maybe a caution.
I think there are a lot of great examples of collaboration
like between Highmark and Lily that you mentioned,
but there are also some really bad examples of collaboration
where it's had tragic consequences.
Anybody here want to see greater collaboration
between insurers and pharmacy benefit managers?
I hope not because guess who gets screwed if that happens?
We all do, right?
There has been a lot of collaboration in this industry
that has worked against consumers, not for consumers.
In fact, one of the things I only recently discovered
is that 80% of the cost of your medicine
when you buy medicines,
the total cost is actually not going to the manufacturers.
You know, maybe if it were 8%,
you could kind of understand it,
an 8% commission on any other product you buy.
But 80, 80 is crazy.
So there has been all of this collusion,
this excessive collaboration I would say
that happens downstream at the expense of the consumer.
So I think we need excellent collaboration in certain parts.
We want great collaboration on the discovery side
and clinical trials and things like that.
But on the consumer side,
I'm not so sure I wanna see more collaboration.
I wanna see more competition there
to help bring down the cost of medicines
and the cost of healthcare.
<v ->I think an interesting topic for this panel as well</v>
is just as we look at the incredible increase
in the amount of data that we have available,
these streams of data coming in, we have both opportunity
and risk when we think about drug discovery on one end
and on the other, provider burnout
and click fatigue, alarm fatigue.
And so I'd love to hear kind of where you feel like we're at
in terms of the opportunities and threats
of managing the amount of data
that's coming into the system.
Maybe, Michael, you could start and we'll go from there.
<v ->I have mixed feelings about this.</v>
So number one is it's...
And you asked sort of for people in the room
and I don't know everyone in the room, that's for sure.
You know, what are the things to think about?
One is to respect the complexity of care delivery.
And so I'll give an example
of if you have a 500 bed hospital,
you might have 2,000 nurses to staff of 500 bed hospital,
maybe 1,500.
Before you start applying rules,
how many options are there
for your staffing choices tomorrow?
Well, the number is larger than the number of atoms
in the observed universe.
Okay.
Like that's a problem we've had since the inception
of hospitals and that we've had those data for a long time.
We now have techniques that may be able to help with them.
And so one of the things that we think about
is what can we learn from other industries
that may be useful for healthcare.
So supply chain optimization is something
that many organizations outside of healthcare
are really good at
and we have lots of technology to support.
So we're things like scheduling and optimization
of the most important resources that you have,
which is your burned out clinicians, right?
So one are things like that.
The second thing that I would say is that, again,
you know, patient-centered care doesn't care
where the patient is, would be...
You know, your question before
posited that there has been no convergence,
but if I asked this room, you know, who's been to the doctor
and then who when you went home googled up
what the doctor told you to double check it,
like a lot of people would raise their hand for that, right?
Or like, you know, haven't helped you
if you had to switch primary care doctors
and you try to find a new primary care doctor
who's used the internet to try to help you do that.
Everybody would raise their hand, right?
The data would say 70% of people.
And if I asked the same question
of who's used, you know, Gemini or Claude or ChatGPT,
a lot of people would raise their hints now
who a year ago would not have.
So I think we are seeing that convergence
without the traditional healthcare system.
And what we're hopeful for
is that by making the tooling available
for healthcare delivery groups, healthcare payers,
medicine and device manufacturers
that will be able to accelerate by us doing 85% of the work
that you have to do and the 15% being done
by the people who are expert in it.
<v ->David, to you, how are you balancing</v>
just all of this data coming in, the power of it,
making the most of it,
while still thinking about just the mental health
and wellbeing of your providers
as they manage that at the bedside?
<v ->Yeah, I mean, I would say a couple of things.</v>
First of all, there's a gentleman named Richard Clark
in the audience, who heads up our data analytics,
came out of Carnegie Mellon.
You know, we went out and we found a bunch
of smart people at Carnegie Mellon
who knew nothing about healthcare.
And then we said, how can you help us take this information,
all this knowledge, both on terms of clinical data,
claims data and unstructured data, you know, the devices,
et cetera, and do something with it.
So we partnered with Google
and said, you know, we need your help
on how do we, you know, build the big engine.
And, you know, we're challenging our people
to then take all that complex information and simplify it.
So going back to my, you know, retail roots.
In retail, when you talk to somebody,
a salesperson in a store, you know,
if you ask them to do something,
you need to understand that you have to write
in a language that allows them to start working
on the project or read it, put it down, go help a customer,
then come back to it in five minutes and pick it back up.
So if you write in paragraphs, people don't pay attention.
If you write, you know, in bullet points,
you can get things done.
We're doing the same thing with everything that we're doing.
You know, we're using the data
and then we're using journey maps, consumer journey maps
for different disease states, cancer, you know,
heart disease, whatever it might be.
And we're trying to make it so that the average person
can understand it, and we're making it so
that it's in a format that the average clinician, you know,
who's, you know, got alert fatigue can deal with it.
And we're also using ambient listening
and, you know, all those kinds of things, you know,
so that we end the days of our docs doing pajama notes.
<v ->A little different spin on this question for you,</v>
Dr. Nevin.
I felt like when I walked the floor,
there was a lack of innovation in provider care,
just thinking about the provider workflow
and there's a number of reasons for that.
How do you think about the kind of programs
that you want to roll out
that help providers manage technology and data
as it comes in?
<v ->Yes, I think there was a strong focus on the consumer,</v>
which is great, you know.
Yeah, so I'll maybe just talk a little bit
about how we're thinking about AI.
You know, I think, again, sort of how...
We've been using AI for a long time.
We have, I think since 2012, have had a platform
that's now called CareVio that ingests data,
applies machine learning, generates risk scores,
and allows a care team essentially to manage a population
of patients in an asynchronous fashion
and also reach out to them if they see rising risk.
So we've been in this space for a while,
but obviously the new tools bring with them
some additional risks.
So it was very important
that we created a governance structure
inside the health system so it didn't become the wild west,
because, again, we're dealing with people's lives.
And the data question is a great question.
You know, we generate tons and tons of data.
The challenge is how do we use it effectively
for the purposes of AI and using data for AI,
we are keeping our data, our data,
we have not sort of pulled in data
from the internet again,
because we have to be certain that the data
that we are using is evidence-based data.
So when we're applying analytics and using it,
we have confidence
that we're gonna get the right outcomes.
And, of course, we always have to be concerned
about privacy.
<v ->Awesome.</v>
One closing question.
I wanna give each of you a chance to respond
as a sort of just a last thought.
If we were to come back 10 years from now
and have a reunion panel
and talk about all the things that we have worked on,
what's one advancement that you hope
that we would be celebrating on that panel?
We'll start with Diogo.
And as a little bit of a wild card question there.
So what do you think.
<v ->It is.</v>
I would like to see some breakthrough medicines out there.
I think we need to focus a lot more on prevention
rather than treatment.
If I walk into an emergency room right now,
I'm gonna pay about 3% out of pocket.
If I go to buy a medicine right now,
I'm gonna pay 20% out of pocket.
These perverted economics drive people
to avoid preventing treatment
and going and getting it when they need it later.
And we need to stop that.
And I would like to see more medicines that are cheaper,
more available for everyone
so that people don't have to go to the hospital
unless they really, really need to.
<v Logan>Dr. Howell.</v>
<v ->10 years is a long time.</v>
I think we'll see medicines that have been discovered
that cure things that we think are incurable today
or require mechanical support today.
I am hopeful that we'll see the democratization
of expertise in a way that makes that number
of 4.5 billion people who don't have access
to essential health services much smaller.
And I think technology is the only way to get there.
And so I'm hopeful for the first time in my career
that technology may play out in a way that leads to billions
of healthier people on a planetary scale.
<v ->10 years from now, I will have closed hospital beds.</v>
The hospital will be purely for intensive care,
high tech procedures,
a place where women will deliver babies.
And I'm able to do that
because so much of the care is moved into the community,
the home into ambulatory settings.
You know, a lot of primary care can be done with AI.
And so 10 years from now,
we've got healthier communities, healthier people,
we're managing chronic disease so much more effectively
that I can shrink those acute care services.
<v Logan>Last word, David.</v>
<v ->You know, 10 years from now,</v>
I think we will have, you know, made a big impact
on chronic disease.
I truly believe that.
I think the innovation that's available to us,
but more importantly, using artificial intelligence
and the computing power that is in front of us
over the next decade,
I think can really knock down some serious issues.
And I think we gotta get away from sick care
and start focusing on, you know, being upstream
and really helping people stay healthy
and give them the information
that will allow them to do that.
<v ->Well, 2035, it's both a long time and a short time,</v>
so maybe we'll be back here to talk about it.
So thank you, everybody.
Thank you, panelists, for taking the time
and thank you everybody for taking part in panel.