<v ->Well, thank you, everybody,</v>
for hanging on for the last panel of the day.
This is great.
You are all clearly the most dedicated,
the most interested, and this is the best panel
with the best panelists, and of course, the best moderator.
So we're gonna be talking about precision medicine.
And this really is my favorite topic
because I think everything that we see around us here
that taps into healthcare or wellness, well-being,
everything that we see in digital health
is really enabling us to be more precise
in terms of what we do as a healthcare system.
And really start to address not only the whole patient,
but specific patients as well.
So this is one of my favorite subjects,
and I'm very fortunate to have a great panel.
So, first, I'm Dale Van Demark.
I'm a partner at McDermott Will &amp; Emery.
I'm also an investor of sorts from time to time.
But really,
let's have our panelists introduce themselves very quickly
so we can get into the discussion.
You just, he's got it.
It should be.
<v ->He gave me instructions and I didn't listen.</v>
All right. Sorry.
Hi, I'm Matt Lungren.
I'm the chief scientific officer
at Microsoft Health &amp; Life Sciences.
I also have clinical and academic appointments
at Stanford and UCSF.
<v ->Hi, everyone, I'm Kate Sasser,</v>
chief science officer at Tempus AI.
Awesome.
<v ->Hi, everybody. I'm Jonathan Reeves.</v>
I'm the global head of R&amp;D and Innovation
at Sanofi Consumer Healthcare.
<v ->Thank you all.</v>
And I'm always intimidated by sitting next to people
who have actual educations and not legal educations.
So this should be good.
So first, let's talk about current state.
Just when we talk about precision medicine,
personalized medicine, what's going on right now?
And just kind of quickly each of you,
again starting, Matt, with you, and we'll work our way down.
<v ->All right.</v>
So I think, I mean, first of all,
just the terminology, right?
Like, I think we talk about precision health,
precision medicine, and I think the general thought
of maybe most here would agree,
it's right treatment, right patient, right time,
something of like that, right?
That's kinda the general thought.
And the hope is that we're moving into a place
where we have more data,
we're able to collect more insights,
and we're able to do those things.
And at the same time, technology meets us in a place
where we can draw those insights and actually drive the cost
to a point where that's possible.
I think there's sparks of it.
I mean, I know there's a lot
of like back and forth about this,
but I, you know, what's funny is there's things
that aren't getting a lot of attention.
Again, I'm in AI and healthcare,
so believe me, I'm part of the problem too.
But there's things happening in, you know,
the vaccine, precision vaccines for cancer,
leveraging, you know, the backbone from Moderna
and some of the others, right?
That is a pretty remarkable thing
to be able to take a tumor antigen
and develop a specific vaccine for that.
I mean, right?
So I think there's things that are happening
around the ecosystem,
but I think as I step back into my world,
the health AI world,
I think we're increasingly in a place where we are,
you know, drowning in data and thirsty for real insights.
You know, that's kind of the tag phrase that we use a lot.
And the hope is that AI can deliver that.
And I think we'll get into more of that as we go.
<v ->Yeah, I agree with all of that.</v>
I think in some ways, when we think about current state,
I've been in the precision medicine space for 25 years,
and there are really shining examples of success.
So in oncology, I think we've come a long way
with truly targeted therapeutics,
in particular, you know, for matching genomic alterations
to therapeutics that can work on those pathways.
So that's been an example of a success story
for precision medicine.
However, we're still a really long way
away from, you know, I think this vision that we've all had
of the right drug for everyone at the right time,
the true personalization of medicine.
And it does feel, with AI coming into play now
and becoming more and more of a reality,
that we are at an inflection point,
and the next 5, 10 years
could potentially see improvements in precision medicine
to actually make it a reality for many more patients.
So that it's not just populations of patients,
but that it actually can become part of healthcare
and how we, you know, manage all of medicine,
which I think was part of the original vision
that we all had when we started using that terminology.
<v ->Yeah, so here comes the downer.</v>
No. So I'm on the consumer health side.
So we're operating 190 billion OTC and VMS business world.
And what we've seen in personalization,
and a precision medicine has been around
consumers want precision diagnostics.
But actually, when they look at buying products
and they are personalized, they're not scalable.
So you look at the vitamin, minerals supply
and supplements market, companies like Nourished,
they've done a phenomenal job
in advertising personalized vitamins,
but they haven't been able to reach scale.
So what we've actually found
is actually people want personalized insights,
but they want customized solutions
because they want to feel part of a community.
I'll give you an example.
Today on YouTube, every year, there's 200 billion,
Every day on Google, there are 700 million health searches.
So just compute those numbers.
So there's a massive desire
for information and recommendations,
but out there, the solutions don't exist.
Or they become so cost-ineffective
that the barriers to entry are too high.
So, you know, there's a couple of things, Dale,
if you don't mind me saying, is that one of the pieces
is around how do we break down the barriers
of education and, and trust around the science
and the credibility of what people are getting,
which is of also all the, you know,
we all work hopefully in the healthcare space,
and AI is great, but one of the challenges
that comes around is do we trust it?
And what's the source of data? Is it credible?
Does it come from really good clinical research and sound?
And on the flip side, other solutions recommended
or biased by, you know, reimbursement status,
et cetera, et cetera.
So really interesting challenges to look at.
<v ->So we've talked about some challenges here,</v>
but let's talk about what that might look like, right?
So what are we building toward?
What can we expect out of precision medicine?
Or maybe a better way to put it is,
what should we be looking at as our guide star
for the future with respect to precision medicine?
This time we'll start, Jonathan, back with you.
<v ->Yeah, so I think, you know, one of the things that,</v>
you know, I'm certainly passionate about
is how do we debunk credible science
that's accessible to consumers?
So I'm a consumer-facing company,
so I'm always gonna look at people as you know,
myself and my wife, my children, and all of us.
As people look searching for better health,
I'll give you an example.
65% of people, of ailments out there
that can be treated by over-the-counter medication
is not being dealt with by over-the-counter medication.
Imagine the burden of healthcare that's creating.
So I think for me it's about debunking condition awareness.
So how do you actually drive that
with the right credible science in an open way?
So there's some great tools,
and now I'm doing a bit of a salesman, so apologies.
But if you walk downstairs,
there's, for example, the Meta Glasses from Essilor.
There's loads of other technologies
where AI is integrated into devices
and usable devices on a daily basis
that become recommendation engines.
You can imagine wearing a set of glasses
that looks at a medical product,
or you can just talk to them like the Alexa glasses
and say, "I'm feeling really unwell, what do I do?"
So I think there's a future around how we guide,
not in a, you know, and this is where I have to take
my sort of, I'm in a company making money perspective,
not in a capitalistic way,
but actually in just a educational way.
So that's the first pillar.
The second pillar is then how do we create
a private-public partnership where healthcare practitioners
and the sort of healthcare industry
is actually working well together
so that we have the science base
and the consumer-facing part of it,
actually part of the conversation.
I'll start with those two
and then I'll hand over to my two colleagues here
'cause I'm sure they've got lots to add.
<v ->There's so many meaty things in there to build off of.</v>
Maybe to go the other direction.
'cause you're talking about, you know, the consumer space
and direct to consumers,
which I think is really interesting,
to go to the opposite end
where we have a lot of the more regulated products.
So thinking about drugs and some of the diagnostics
that need FDA approval
and thinking about what's the next wave
for precision medicine there.
I actually think those two worlds are gonna, they are,
and they will continue to merge more together
because patients are demanding more autonomy
in their healthcare,
even in that heavily regulated space.
That being said,
some of the trends that I think are coming very rapidly are,
because in the title we have genomics today,
so I'll put a plug in for that.
I do think genomics is a space where not only in oncology,
but in a lot of the other areas,
we're gonna see this infiltration of, you know,
matching patient's genomics
to the healthcare recommendations we make.
And you know, right now
that's heavily slanted towards actual disease,
chronic disease, in particular acute disease.
I think we're gonna see shifts more and more
towards prevention,
which may get closer into the consumer space.
In other words, you know, can you be genomic,
your genomics will be profiled much earlier
or before you actually have overt disease.
You may be put in higher risk categories,
you may have more monitoring.
Those may be tied together with a lot of data
and AI applications.
And physicians, and potentially patients themselves,
will be able to be monitoring and watching
and thinking about the right recommendations for their care
in a very personalized and precise way.
Now, there's a ton of challenges,
and the system is gonna have to think of really unique ways
to catch up, in particular the regulatory agencies
and some of the things that, you know,
we apply on the regulated space to keep people safe.
But we already see a lot of discussion there.
So just this last week, the FDA has released a whole,
I don't know, three or four guidances back to back
to try to get on top of AI devices
and what the expectations will be and how their guidelines,
you know, new guidelines for thinking about it.
So it's rapidly evolving space,
but I would say I'm on the optimistic side
for what it's gonna look like in another five years.
<v ->Yeah, I mean, I think from my perspective,</v>
I'm also optimistic.
I mean, you know, clearly I think
I wouldn't be doing this for a living if I wasn't.
And, you know, I've been in the health AI space
long enough to sort of seen some patterns
start to break, right?
Like patterns that used to be,
hey, we have to gather tons of data
to build a bespoke model to do one thing,
and then we have to treat it like software
and then we have to deal with that one use case
being potentially addressed,
and then we have all these others
that we need to complete the system.
And so I think some of those patterns
are starting to change.
With essentially what we're,
you can almost look at as free lunch,
and what what I mean by that
is all the large language models that we're trained on,
essentially available data, let's just say,
almost by accident have competencies,
or, quote, unquote, "latent representations,"
of real healthcare concepts, right?
So when we see these headlines that say,
"Oh, the models can do really well on, you know,
medical board exams," that that's a signal me.
It doesn't mean that it's, you know,
able to perform at the level of physician in real practice.
But what it tells me is that there's representations
of the types of things that I need to know to do my job.
Where does that become really interesting?
Well, you know, for us,
we can take advantage of this free lunch
with just dealing with a lot of the overhead.
You know, that it takes to take care of a patient
in the current healthcare system.
But as we move towards this precision medicine,
now you're in a space
where you might be getting unique data,
the type of data that's not, you know,
freely available on the internet.
And one of the things
that I feel is gonna be the next breakthrough,
at least my North star, is a truly multimodal understanding
of real healthcare data or real-world data.
And, you know, one of the ways to achieve that
is a very tired, old solution,
which is to say we have data silos
that are sitting in bespoke, you know, systems
across the country to across the world.
We have to find a way to bring that together
and, you know, bring it closer to intelligence
to drive those insights.
As a physician, if I have a patient coming in
and maybe they're wearing one of these, you know, wearables
and they have all these insights,
I'm not sure what I'm supposed to do with that.
I don't have a great mechanism with my current system
to take care of that
or to provide the education that they might need.
Touching on a couple of the other comments though,
that is again, part of the other patterns of behavior
that may change, right?
So I like to think there's also a lot of Bing Searches
for healthcare as well.
And as part of that,
is there opportunity to provide a co-pilot
that is more versed in, you know, reliable, good data
to provide that sort of at the right education level,
be very patient, answer their questions at all times,
those kinds of solutions I think will become more common
because of the demand that you're seeing.
How does that translate in the physician's office?
Well, if I'm getting genomics information,
again, I'm not sure what to do with that.
But if I have a model that has been trained
to understand genomics and ties that to clinical data,
well, then maybe I will know
that I should not start with this drug.
I need to go to the next, you know,
next blood pressure control medicine
because they're unlikely to respond.
Those kinds of things I think are starting to happen.
And I'm, you know, I'm very optimistic
that these sparks will, will lead to something real.
<v ->Can I ping on Matt's point?</v>
I think that there's a piece that Matt was alluding to,
which is the whole disintermediation of healthcare.
If you take, you know,
for those who've walked the floor,
if you go to a company like Withings,
they launched BeamO last year.
Anybody, you know BeamO?
It's actually a telemedicine linked device for home use.
You start seeing some of these things
where actually home data, personalized data
is flowing into the healthcare system automatically.
You add in companies like MedE
that do at-home prescription delivery
and fulfillment, you start actually seeing a system
where I'm hoping, and you're asking about trends,
that we will actually deburden the healthcare system
by removing non chronic issues to a home situation
so that the healthcare system can focus on chronic diseases.
And then, you know, in taking of genomics,
completely agree with you.
You know, you've seen the recent news article
around L'Oreal and skin genomics.
That's just some of the elements that's happening out there.
And we are looking at gut and, you know, huge amount of work
and gut, the FDA have just bought their first shine model.
So there's a lot of work going on in that area.
So there's a huge amount of opportunity space for us to get,
as I said, more customized,
'cause I think that's probably where the value's gonna lie
for mass, dare I say, mass niche, you know,
than personalization.
But definitely we we're getting close
to solutions that make a difference.
<v ->Yeah, I had a just real quick catchphrase on that topic.</v>
Like, I had a mentor for many years at Stanford
who used to say, you know,
he was the chair of the department,
so he'd be invited to all these ceremonies
when you open a hospital, right?
You cut the ribbon or whatever.
And he says, why are we celebrating
the opening of a hospital?
We should be celebrating the closing of a hospital, right?
And I think this is getting to that idea,
if we have to build more buildings
to take care of patients in expensive ways,
we're not really doing our job, right?
We're supposed to be healthcare, not sick care, right?
Yeah.
<v ->So there's a very interesting kind of vision</v>
that I'm picking up from all of you,
which is the access to actionable,
understandable data coming from multiple sources
that allow for almost real time decision-making,
with respect to treatment,
and, well, diagnosis and treatment options,
which I think is kind of a great thing
to be able to think about, right,
if we're walking down the street
and we don't have to worry about making an appointment.
It comes into our mind,
"Oh, I need to think about this thing,"
and we can go and do that.
But what it also means
is that we would be talking about healthcare
in some fundamentally different ways.
In terms of how it is delivered.
Perhaps, Kate, you noted
maybe how it's regulated as well, right?
And how we think about.
So when we think about that kind of delivery system,
what has to change, right?
What would be different about having those capabilities
and that kind of healthcare system from what we have now
besides not building more hospitals?
<v ->I can start-</v>
<v ->Whatever one's stand, it has to go first.</v>
<v ->It's almost like what doesn't change, right?</v>
It might be easier.
But I'll stick with a few things.
<v Dale>You can start there.</v>
You can say it, you know?
<v ->Yeah.</v>
Well, one thing I,
so one challenge that we have
that will absolutely have to change is,
and we've been working on it for years already,
is better harmonization across the entire system.
And something that goes with that
that I was just thinking about as we were, you know,
starting the first half of this
is that we still have really wide disparities
in how healthcare is delivered.
And on one hand you could say,
you know, a lot of the things we're talking about,
especially around AI and this whole conference
around new technologies
and those things coming into healthcare,
on one hand we have the promise
that that is going to improve the disparities that we have,
but I think we're gonna have to pay a lot of attention
to that and make sure that we actually change the system
on the delivery side and on the harmonization side.
Otherwise, we will rapidly exacerbate the disparities.
And so you'll have consumers that are already well-educated
or companies that are already coming to CES
and understand technology,
and hospital systems that know that are also here.
The previous panel was a lot of healthcare workers,
compared to all of the places where they are not.
And so we could see a widening gap there.
So I think that's something
we'll have to really pay attention to
and push for that to change.
Because on the opposite end, if we do that, if we integrate,
if we harmonize data, if we allow some of these algorithms
that are multimodal to actually be disseminated
across the system and make them available to consumers,
we can move towards the vision
that I think we're all describing, so.
<v ->Yeah, so I think great.</v>
I'll just jump on that.
So I think what Matthew alluded to
was accessibility of data.
So if data today,
and certainly in the last sort of five years,
has been seen as a competitive edge
by, you know, health, you know, if you look at hospitals
and you look at how metrics are measured
across hospital performance and healthcare performance,
we have to move to a pre-competitive dataset.
That means that data in itself
doesn't become a competitive edge.
The actual interpretation of the data
and how you use it becomes a competitive edge.
And that's a very different situation to be in.
You know, I think of examples
in where we are looking at stuff
and we've had to make that move.
Now, you know, and I'm not gonna,
I'm not trying to sell my company,
but it's more around, we've had to make that move.
And it takes a real conscious effort in investment,
in resourcing, but also capabilities.
People have to think and act differently.
And we've had to sort of recycle
and get, you know, people have to leave
and new people come in
'cause it's a fundamental shift in mindset.
And then the second piece is coming back to your point,
which is, you know, if you've harmonized
the baseline of the data, it's comparable data.
Today, it isn't.
You know, coming back to the point on regulation,
the regulation is not a global regulation.
FDA is different to European.
Medical disease is different everywhere.
So I know we need,
you're never gonna find a common ground.
In the same way, there's no global consumer.
You're gonna have to find some points where you can dock in
and have some parallel work streams to work.
But it is a massive change for us
from a global perspective.
You wanna this.
<v ->Can I just add before.</v>
Can I just like to ask a follow up question
with you, Jonathan?
'Cause you had talked about more information to the consumer
and better information to the consumer.
But I'm a consumer
and I'm an idiot when it comes to healthcare, right?
I mean, I probably am a little bit smarter
than people because I know that I'm an idiot
when it comes to healthcare, right?
I mean, I can do Google searches,
I can find out all sorts of stuff, but I'm not a doctor.
I haven't been to medical,
so I don't know how cells work, right?
So we can arm people with data,
but how informed do they have to be?
And what do we have to think about
in terms of giving them all this data
about making sure that consumers are informed enough
to be able to make appropriate decisions?
<v ->Yeah.</v>
So I'm gonna be nice to Matt.
I'm not gonna talk about Google or talk about Bing,
but, you know, how many of you
actually in your families have a Bing doc?
So somebody's gone on to Bing and said,
I've got a problem and suddenly they know all the solutions
'cause Bing has told them.
But it's not Bing's fault
because we naturally humans wanna go and find data.
But you're right.
You know, how do we educate that system?
So I give you, you know, we are operating
in medication spaces that are complicated.
You know, yes, there's some ibuprofen,
but you'll know about that.
But there's other things.
We work in antispasmodics, we work in allergy.
You know, it's complicated for consumers
to understand how it works, why should it work.
You know, so we we're actively ourselves
looking at how we simplify science,
but we have to do that in every element
of connection with the consumer.
Because in the same way as you go to ChatGPT,
if you were to say, "I've got a headache."
Unfortunately, it probably would come back and say,
"You might have brain cancer."
And you might need to go and ask,
and I'd urge you to ask the question,
"Okay, what's your source data?"
And it'll probably come back
and you'll find out it's a hallucination of some sort.
So there is that piece that we need to be more mindful.
So certainly, from a private healthcare perspective,
so we're definitely looking at closed loop AI
and how we actually inform that.
But we're gonna have to move forward and open that
and find ways to actually bring simple science,
simple credible recommendation tools
to consumers that not only tells, visualizes,
but brings it to life in an easy, intuitive way.
<v ->Couple comments. I think this is a great discussion.</v>
Okay, so I think, well, can I,
let me talk about this first part,
which is the education of the consumer.
'Cause like, I actually see this a little differently.
So you probably heard the phrase,
like, "Your Google search does not replace
my medical degree," right?
When you, the patient, comes in
with a bunch of Google searches,
and, "I've got a tumor."
You're like, "No, you're fine."
You know, that whole thing.
Well that was definitely a thing for a long time.
But now, and this is completely my experience,
but, you know, my colleagues have seen some similar things.
Patients are having long discussions about diseases
or symptoms or medications
with these state-of-the-art models.
I'm being very clear here.
You go back to 3.5, even the early days of 4,
you're not gonna see this but 4.0 with web search
and, you know, to deference
to some of the other big players,
you know, they have solutions that do real research, right?
We're starting to get to a place where, you know,
I'm not go going too far outside the lines
to say that intelligence is asymptotically heading
to free in many domains.
And this is one of them.
So my patients don't now come to me
and I'm like, "Oh, well, oh yeah.
That's a pretty good insight, you know?
You'd save me two steps, right?"
Or they've actually thought these things through
with a model in a very strange way.
And, you know, I see this in my own kids, right?
They're learning concepts
by having conversations even out loud.
And to even push it a step further,
what about our elderly population,
who are incredibly unlikely to even handle email, like?
So how are they gonna access that technology?
Well, you saw, you can call 1-800-ChatGPT.
I'm not joking, this is a real thing,
if you weren't paying attention to launches.
And you can have a real-time conversation with the model.
My my grandma did that.
And she was blown away, right?
So I think we're starting to get to a place
where that the information asymmetry
that has plagued those of us
who have to memorize a bunch of stuff
and then explain it in a certain way,
it's starting to level off a bit.
And this is a huge opportunity for us.
One more point I'll make in terms of like democratization,
'cause I do agree that this idea that this data is mine
and it's valuable and, you know, I don't want to share it
because it's, you know, my competitive edge.
If you take a page out of the book
of the broader AI community where they're using the same,
right, let's be honest, the same stack of web-scraped data
to build, let's just say,
in mildly intelligent models now, right?
And the competitive model is sort of almost flattened.
And now they are innovating on the post training,
they're innovating on the inference time compute,
and they're getting differentiation.
How do we do that in healthcare, right?
This is protected data. There's a lot of privacy issues.
One way that's been proposed that I happen to like,
and I'm curious if this resonates with anybody,
but we have a system in place today
for organ and tissue donation,
where every hospital is required to report
to a nonprofit that someone is about to die or has died
so they can be approached for organ tissue donation.
You've all been to the DMV,
you check on your license that you're willing to donate.
What about a system that would also add another box,
donate your data after you pass away?
Interesting concept,
but it's certainly an easier space race to win
as a centralized infrastructure
than trying to put together hundreds of thousands of GPUs
and compete with my company and Meta and all these others
to build a government-based GPU cluster.
If we're talking about solving healthcare problems,
this democratized data
would ideally be well-distributed, right?
Not from just certain populations.
And hopefully over time be comprehensive enough
to drive real solutions.
So, anyway.
<v ->No, I like that idea.</v>
That's very interesting.
I made a promise to myself not to mention AI
as the moderator, but you're forcing me to do it.
<v Matt>Yeah.</v>
<v ->So it's not my fault. I didn't break my promise myself.</v>
<v Matt>I can say it every time I say it.</v>
<v ->Okay. I figured.</v>
Yeah. Okay.
But you've made a really interesting point,
and this is why I'm gonna mention it.
'Cause the question I had to ask was about
how do we make sure that we as consumers, right,
can take this information
and really utilize it in a very positive way
to really take advantage, right, of precision medicine.
And to a certain degree, Matt, you said, well,
well AI will save the day
because AI will allow the consumers, right,
to take this information and really understand with it,
assuming that they understand how to use the AI tool, right?
Which is a whole lot easier to explain
than how a cell works, in my opinion.
So then the question is, well what does that then mean
for our healthcare institutions, right?
If I can walk into a doctor's office now
and I've just gotten this wonderful information
about what's going on in my eye, right,
or the back of my throat because of my wearables
or implanted devices
that are now feeding me vast amounts of data
and I've engaged with an AI system, say, "What's going on?"
And it's giving me an answer.
And I can come into you and say,
"Hey, I think this is what's going on."
And you say, "Yep."
Is it worth going to medical school
for that to happen, right?
And is it worth it for me to go see you, right?
To kind of have that.
So this to me is kind of one of those intractable problems
that I'm kind of curious
as to how do how do we make something work
when we have potentially that kind of capability?
<v ->Yeah, I mean I, you know, so I see that you're,</v>
you kind of going to the conclusion of,
okay, well, what do I need this guy for?
You know, he's, you know...
<v Dale>You're great panelist, don't get me me wrong.</v>
You still have a job on doing panelist.
<v ->I mean, I'll go now.</v>
No, but I think the way I look at
it is that I spend a significant amount of my time
having that education conversation with every clinic visit.
And, you know, which I actually don't,
it's actually part of my job that I do enjoy.
But like there's other parts of my job that I don't enjoy
that also kind of include this sort of arbitrage
of information or /intelligence.
All the things like if I had to do an 80/20
of how much of my time,
do I spend doing things that I was trained to do
versus things like that I'm have to do,
like documentation, coding, billing, prior auth.
Like if I could move that 20% slightly closer to 50% even,
I would be thrilled.
And I'd probably see more patients,
I'd probably have a better opportunity
to take care of more things in one visit.
And frankly, I might be able to start tackling
some of those things that are not the typical,
I got 15 minutes with you, just gimme your top problem.
So, you know, that's kind of my optimistic view of it.
You could draw that conclusion of like,
well, if intelligence is everywhere,
why do we need any roles?
And I think there's some folks in Silicon Valley
that'd be happy to talk to you about that future.
I think for me, I'm very pragmatic.
I just want to get to a place
where I'm able to see more patients,
take great care of them.
And again, move to a place
where the information they're bringing me,
maybe it's a wearable,
maybe it's a genomics test they've taken, a gut biome test,
I'd like to know what I can do with that too.
<v ->Yeah, I'll just piggyback off that.</v>
And the earlier question was like,
what else needs to change?
And so I think, you know, what we are already seeing,
if I think about Tempus AI,
and we work across the healthcare system,
meaning both AMCs and also community health centers,
and we see a shift actually already happening
of kind of what you're describing,
that especially in the primary care space,
that those physicians are able to leverage AI tools already
to do some of the more monotonous
or time-consuming administrative stuff
and move over to actually caring for patients.
And the second thing we see
is a shift towards other type of workers coming into play.
So community healthcare workers
that are actually able to also leverage
a lot of these new tools and technologies.
And to bring, again,
especially primary care or preventative care,
or even sometimes chronic illness care,
like diabetes or high blood pressure, those type of things,
into more of the consumer space.
So you can think about pharmacies or grocery stores.
I mean, I don't know how many of you have seen
the get your COVID shot,
get your flu shot at your Giant or Kroger or whatever.
I'm always a little bit hesitant by the way,
but it works for a lot of the communities,
and we see a lot of adoption that way.
So I do think that we're already seeing
some of those trends happening,
and they will probably accelerate.
And hopefully it's a benefit across the system.
<v ->If I can just ask, Kate,</v>
just a quick follow up question on that then.
Do you see, well, for everybody,
the role of the physician,
I mean, you're talking about
potentially doing different things than,
I'm not gonna guess at your age,
but that you were taught to do, right,
as part of your medical training
and maybe even during residency, right?
That you're doing different things, right?
You are perhaps acting more as a navigator for a patient
as they think about and think about
what they want out of their health and, right,
and how to manage their condition.
So are we seeing also perhaps a change in what physicians
and other healthcare practitioners are actually doing
when it comes to delivering care?
And is that a future that we need to be thinking about
and starting training about?
<v ->I can-</v>
<v ->I'll let the physician answer.</v>
<v ->I'll do it quick,</v>
but I'm curious to hear on the consumer side too.
I think there's a tricky question.
You know, 'cause in reality, in training, right,
we have to compress.
That's why, you know, we have hundreds of hours
we spend every week in training for years, right?
We do this.
But when we get out into practice,
at least, especially in primary care, by the way,
you're really supposed to manage chronic illness.
Well, that takes place over decades, right?
Ideally.
But at your residency and training,
well, that was like four years or three years or something.
So there have been people talking about
how do we think about the medical education system,
not just, obviously, you know, AI literacy,
but also can we use these systems with real world data again
to create synthetic interactive,
almost like a pilot-type simulation experience.
So, okay, you did this,
the patient comes back five years later, this happens.
Now what do you do?
And that's not really something we get to see
because, well, training is short.
There's also an an idea of like, you know,
how much information can we possibly pack
into medical training at this point, right?
The medical information doubles every 90 days, I'm told.
I don't know if that's exactly right,
but it's something like that.
And a lot of us go into sub, sub, subspecialty.
So I'm a pediatric interventional radiologist.
That is so small.
Like, I know everyone who does that work,
almost in the world, okay?
So it's a very small field,
but yet, we still have a lot of information to keep up.
But now if you were to ask me,
this patient has a different medical problem
not related to my specialty, I'm gonna be like,
"Oh man, I gotta go find another specialist
'cause I don't know what that is,
or I've been years since I've thought about it."
So some of these other systems, I think,
will change our roles.
I can maybe consult a system
that has the ability to bring the insights
that I can use to take care of that patient
in a different way.
These are all things I've heard floated around.
I think we're all, as a medical community,
trying to figure this out as well.
But I will emphasize this for the crowd,
what we want is technology that saves us time.
And, you know, saving time before saving lives.
And I know that sounds weird.
We'll take care of the lives, okay?
We need to save time because we are drowning in work
that does not require a medical license.
<v ->Yeah. Do you wanna go first?</v>
<v ->No.</v>
<v ->No, I was just gonna say that.</v>
I think there's three key things,
and I think jumping on Matt's point,
which is one is around quality of care.
So everybody knows the Mayo Clinic model two,
two-apart you know, two recommendations.
Imagine that one of them,
every hospital has that same model,
but you don't have to pay for two doctors.
<v Matt>Right.</v>
<v ->Yeah.</v>
Because one of them might be an AI-driven recommendation.
You still need,
and the reason why I say that is because we've got a study
that says that seven,
if you actually have an HCP recommended opinion,
72% increase in willingness to adopt the regimen.
That's not an AI-driven recommendation.
Consumers, people still want a human recommendation
because they don't trust the AI to be at that level.
And we're still a long way away from that.
There's a lot of barriers still to go through.
Which is why, you know,
I don't see doctors becoming prompt engineers,
but I do see them becoming more...
So the second pillar
is about they're gonna focus on chronic disease
because non-chronic diseases will be covered at home.
That means that the quality of care,
but also the time allocated per patient is gonna go up
and the volume is gonna go up
in terms of chronic disease treatment.
And then the third one is actually emerging new solutions
and integration into the healthcare space.
So today is the barrier to entry,
the time of integration of new medicines, new technologies,
new devices, new approaches take so long.
And it comes back to your point
at the beginning on regulation, it's gonna be accelerated.
So that means that we're gonna have improvement in care
as a result of that.
So I think those for me
are the three key elements to expect.
<v ->And maybe the last thing I'll add quickly,</v>
which is, as you were talking through it,
I think it speaks to,
and actually the three you added as well,
speak to more specialization.
And actually this is precision medicine.
You know, it's very hard to get
to true personalized healthcare
because when you think about all of the illnesses,
all of the solutions,
all of the variables that go into a recommendation,
it's almost impossible until almost this moment in time
where we actually can amass the data,
be able to uncover insights, be able to understand it,
to the point that you can make a recommendation.
And maybe that starts with an AI agent
and it gets to the physician
or it gets to the consumer itself.
But that is, I think, what we're ultimately,
we're gonna see precision medicine come to fruition
because of all of these things that we're talking about.
<v ->So do you see the, just to digress a little bit</v>
and into specifically the kind of organization
that Tempus is, which is this really neat entity
that you couldn't really characterize, say, 10 years ago,
didn't exist because it kind of sits
between the life sciences and the healthcare sector
and as this moderator of information
and creating some real value in that process.
And I'm wondering,
again, when we're talking about the role of the physician,
do we see that kind of merging together
of life sciences and healthcare continuing,
to the point where it's kind of seamless, right?
That there's kind of no in-between?
<v ->I would, I mean, I would love that.</v>
I think it's, I think that's part of the dream.
I will say what we see happening now
is the time shrinking between, you know,
the healthcare system and the life science companies,
in particular, drug development or diagnostic development.
And I think that we will see that move faster and faster
because we start to have these flywheels
that we were just talking about, right?
We have large datasets.
Actually, large enough now to uncover
these kind of rare, personalized features
that we need to be able to understand.
And now that it is multimodal,
so it's not just a genomic variant.
It's, you know, your retinal scan or your blood pressure
or those three things together.
And so we have a lot of these insights.
And we're able then to partner with therapeutic companies,
they can develop the right drugs,
and then they can also work with the healthcare side
on the delivery.
So all of that is actually moving together
in a really, I think, kind of convergence
of healthcare, technology, all of those things at one time.
It's a really exciting space.
And you're right, we still have to explain
companies like Tempus
that are kind of in the middle doing all of it
because it is complicated and most of it is new,
and it's requiring new ways of thinking
and doing all of this.
But the end goal will be to really transform the space
<v ->And thinking about regulation as well.</v>
which again-
<v ->Yes.</v>
<v ->We haven't gotten to.</v>
But most-
<v ->We need a whole nother panel.</v>
<v ->Yeah. No.</v>
<v ->I get it, you should.</v>
<v ->I had this whole list of things I wanted to talk about,</v>
and sadly we got to two,
but we only have a few seconds left.
So just in the last few seconds, very quickly,
each of you, just what's the most significant challenge
for us in terms of getting to this future?
And again, just very quickly, 10 seconds or less.
Matt, we'll start with you
'cause you're struggling the most.
<v ->I'm trying to think.</v>
Yeah, I do. This is hard.
Very quick. I think I'm gonna go data.
I'm just gonna say data. Yeah.
<v ->That's good.</v>
<v ->I'm gonna say adoption and delivery</v>
because, you know, we're all,
and at this conference, it's all sexy and exciting,
and we all love this space.
We're passionate about it.
But adoption and delivery is still a challenge.
<v ->You stole my too,</v>
so I'm gonna go with revenue and metrics.
<v ->We couldn't have a conversation without that.</v>
Just slipping into the equation at some point.
Okay, well we have gotten right up to the end of the time.
I really want to thank all of you.
This is great.
I wish we had all day to talk about this.
I could.
Sadly, that tells you what kind of a geek I am.
But really great topic, fascinating topic.
I think a great way to end the conference.
And I wanna say thank you to CTA and CES.
This has been a great event year after year.
It's getting better every year.
So big warm applause I think for the panel
and to the CTA and CES.
<v ->And the audience.</v>