<v ->All right, the music stopped.</v>
I think it's the time to get started.
So welcome, everybody, to the second session.
My name is Nathan de Ruiter.
I'm a partner and managing director at Novaspace,
a consulting firm specialized in the space sector.
So this topic will be about "Driving into the Future:
The Impact of Connected Cars."
So not sure you already had a chance
to visit some of the booths at the exhibition floor,
but if you have some,
so you probably have seen and witnessed firsthand
the kind of impressive technology advancements
of the car manufacturers into the software-defined vehicles.
So when we talk about software-defined vehicles,
you could argue that connectivity is really a key enabler,
so kind of the critical backbone
for providing these capabilities.
So our session today, we'll discuss about the benefits
of software-defined vehicles.
Also, we'll look at what does it mean
in terms of connectivity requirements
to enable those software-defined vehicles.
But we also very specifically talk about
the role of satellite, right?
That's kind of the angle we're taking here.
What's the role of satellite?
What are the different use cases
and potentially as well
the opportunities and challenges
to make it kind of a wider adoption of satellite
into that connected car.
We have a great lineup of speakers. It's very interesting.
Each one have a very different angle
that they bring to the conversation.
So we'll see if they can agree or disagree
and how the discussion will evolve.
So what I'll do first,
I will ask each individual speaker
to introduce themself,
as well highlight the company they're representing
and maybe as well kind of what is the angle
they provide to the conversation
of the connected/software-defined vehicle.
So maybe we'll just go down the line.
So Kieran, you go first.
<v ->Yeah, thanks everyone.</v>
So my name is Kieran McAleer.
I'm a department manager at AVL,
responsible for new innovation solutions
to support the automotive development processes.
So some solutions we're working on is around cybersecurity,
ADAS and automatic robotic drivers.
AVL as a company is a technology provider
in the areas of development, simulation and testing
specifically for the focus on the automotive market.
And yeah, the main areas or the main focus points
currently in our projects and opportunities with customers
is around ADAS, SDV, electrification and safety,
and yeah, also now cybersecurity,
which is taking more prevalence in the automotive market.
<v ->Okay, Sven Hellsten from Ericsson,</v>
a Swedish based company, telecommunication,
headquarter in Stockholm,
working with the satellite technology
and we have the vision that satellites with 5G
and in the future, 6G,
will provide what we call the ubiquitous coverage
all around the world
for various use cases.
<v ->My name is Omar Qaise,</v>
I'm the founder and CEO of OQ technology.
We are a satellite operator based in Luxembourg
that operates low earth orbit nano satellites
to provide 5G non-terrestrial network connectivity
for remote and rural areas,
especially for verticals like energy, mobility, agriculture,
and mining and mobility logistics.
Fleet management is a core area for 5G
and TN connectivity that we provide.
<v ->So my name is Joerg Tischler,</v>
I'm from T-Systems
and heading the connect mobility unit.
T-Systems is the business to business system integrator
of the telecom T-Mobile US.
So we are kind of using connectivity
to operate large fleets for OEMs.
So meaning all the fleets which have
software defined vehicle features.
That's what we are building and operating.
<v ->My name is Maite Bezerra.</v>
I am a senior principal analyst, Forward Intelligence,
in software-defined vehicles.
And my job is to research this transition
that the automotive industry is facing now,
moving away from hardware centric vehicles
into software-defined vehicles
and what that actually entails in terms of hardware,
in terms of software platforms,
in terms of relationship with their suppliers
and even in terms of
their internal organizational process as well.
<v ->Perfect. That's a great introduction.</v>
Maite, we'll just right away start with you.
Software defined vehicles,
as a consultant to consultant,
market sizing always a key question to start with.
So can you kinda give an indication
what is the current market size of software defined vehicles
and what is kind of the growth prospects?
<v ->Sure.</v>
I think before I address your question specifically,
I think it's important to take a step back
and understand the evolution of the vehicles.
So then we have a good understanding
of what software-defined vehicle actually is
and the role of connectivity in the different stages, right?
So we first have the stage zero,
in which we have a purely mechanical vehicle,
there's no connectivity in there.
Then we have the stage one when we have a connected car.
This is a car that has features installed in the car
and these features can be enhanced with connectivity.
So navigation, for example.
You can suddenly have live traffic information
if your car is connected.
Then you have the level two, which I call a semi-SDV,
it's not quite there yet, which is a car that is connected
and is also capable of receiving updates
to the features that are in the car.
However, these updates are essentially bug fixes.
You're not changing,
fundamentally changing anything in the car.
So in this stage one to two,
connectivity is kind of an add-on
to what you already have in the car, right?
And then you have this stage three,
which is a software defined vehicle.
And in here, connectivity becomes a foundational layer.
It's not just an add-on anymore.
When you are designing a vehicle,
when you're designing a function,
connectivity is part of them
and this is essentially digitalizing the car,
which, quite frankly, has been the same
for the past 100 years.
So it was time, wasn't it?
But when you digitalize the car,
you have to digitalize the companies
that manufacture the car.
You have to digitalize the companies
that supply the hardware and the software to the car
and the whole supply chain.
So I'm saying this just to point out
how complex, how comprehensive
the concept of software-defined vehicle is.
It goes way beyond just the car itself.
So Forward Intelligence,
we estimate that 4% of all the vehicles sold in 2024
were purely software-defined vehicle
based on this estimation.
Now, is the market going to grow?
Definitely.
All the automakers are going to migrate
to software-defined vehicles.
However, this transition is going to be gradual.
It's not something that will happen overnight.
We are not gonna see enormous growth
taking place in the upcoming years.
So in 2020, by the end of the decade,
we expect it to be around 10% of all new vehicles sold
purely software-defined vehicles.
Now if you think about connected cars,
which is level one and two as well,
then we have a higher base.
70% of all vehicles sold in 2023 had embedded connectivity.
And by 2030, we are gonna see
pretty much all new vehicles having them.
<v ->All right, great.</v>
Kieran, do you see some OEMs
taking a particular lead
in the kind of the software defined vehicle development
or a difference between OEMs?
<v ->Yeah, I think from our perspective,</v>
there's certainly a difference between the OEMs,
as I think also we agree that the SDV,
it's got a wide scope,
it means different things to different people.
We see that what's evident is
that the OEMs are going in this direction.
So the investment is there and they have a focus.
I think there's a general acceptance that
within 10 years, there should be a wide adoption
of SDV related features, functions in the vehicles.
But I would say from our perspective,
we see that there is different OEMs at different levels.
So it's like comparing,
let's say the established OEMs compared to the new startups,
the established OEMs have the challenge with existing legacy
that they have to accommodate with,
they have their defined process, et cetera,
and they become more software orientated.
This also takes time in the mind,
a mind shift as well.
And if you look at the new startups,
they don't really have this legacy,
so they can be quicker to adopt the new technologies,
the platforms that are required
to bring this SDV capability.
And from my perspective, regarding connectivity,
maybe this is a personal kind of focus or key.
I see the key aspect here
around connectivity in the SDV terms
should be around, let's say, safety.
So not only passenger safety but also pedestrian safety.
I think this is where the biggest impact
could be for the future.
<v ->All right, maybe moving on that.</v>
Yeah, so it's Consumer Electronics Show.
So consumer experience is important.
So maybe talk a bit about
the expectations.
So safety here, as mentioned,
is a primary use case,
particularly for connectivity.
What are other benefits?
For example, Sven, maybe you can talk about it,
that the connected or software-defined vehicle can bring
from a personal user experience.
<v ->Yep.</v>
I think when you talk about safety and everything,
the question is, what kind of service are you looking for?
And basically we're seeing three different tracks now.
One is IOT type of connectivity,
with messaging, emergency messaging and stuff like that.
Possible with LEO satellites,
but also with yield satellites, actually,
quite good from a coverage perspective.
Moving on with more advanced services,
you would go into Lee Orbits.
Depending on the frequency band,
you could go for voice and data everywhere.
And actually, also with 5G
on some higher bands,
you can do quite advanced data services.
<v ->And Omar, maybe that's important,</v>
as maybe not everybody in the audience, you know,
is fully familiar with satellites.
So maybe first kind of question,
if you can help us situate, you know,
how the role of satellite fits
with all the other terrestrial technologies out there.
And then maybe talk a little bit about OQ Technology
and the constellation developing,
what kind of value proposition that brings,
particularly in realm to the kind of,
you talked about mobility,
so if connected car is one of the use cases,
how your kind of technology fits in there.
<v ->So it's well known</v>
that satellites are gonna play a very crucial role
for software defined vehicles,
especially because of the global reach, mainly.
I mean, with satellites you can have global coverage,
which allows especially to enable,
with all the new services
and features in these cars,
whether it's autonomous driving,
safety features, infotainment,
you'll need connectivity everywhere.
And satellites have the biggest footprint
that they could provide in areas,
especially where you don't have
the terrestrial infrastructure.
That's one benefit.
The other thing is satellites could actually act as a backup
for the existing other terrestrial communication means
for vehicles,
especially if you want to talk about
level five of autonomous driving,
you will need to ensure
that there is always connectivity.
Even if you have terrestrial level of connectivity
with 4G, 5G, or wifi,
you would still need to have the satellite link available
in case there is interruption.
And of course, for emergency and hazard,
to avoid hazards and accidents.
Having low latency communication is very crucial
for cars to have enough information
that they can also provide the necessary reaction
that can be taken also by the cars
in case of such incidents.
And finally also from navigation point of view,
well, you know, GNSS systems are available,
provide good navigation method,
but also there's improved navigation
that could be provided by satellites,
especially with augmented reality assisted navigation
or real time HD mapping.
And that requires also a lot of information exchange
that satellites could provide.
If you talk also about security,
so satellites also are considered a secure platform
compared to other terrestrial platforms
and that also adds another benefit.
Now regarding what we do today,
so the idea here is really using the 3GPP standard
over satellites for narrow band communication
so that you could have seamless roaming
and communication with terrestrial networks.
And this is something that OEMs are looking for
because you don't want to have different technologies
and different standards for the car.
For connectivity,
integrating both terrestrial and satellite
within the same chip, the same technology
that can work with different telcos
that follow the same standard
plays a big role
and that's the value add we could bring,
not just us but any satellite constellation
that is following the 3GPP
and TN standard for 5G.
The use case, of course, there is the geo coverage.
It has its own limitation.
There's the LEO, which has its own also challenges.
But where we see today a lot of adoption, early adoption
is for like, B2B and fleet management, telematics.
This is where especially
getting information about where the car is,
whether it's where the fleet is,
even the people who are for safety,
like workers, where they are and what they did
and tracking of the, for example, materials on these cars
and also for predictive maintenance,
getting reports so that fleet operators could plan
maintenance efficiently.
So this is the type of use cases that we see.
And of course,
with future applications, entertainment,
you would need higher bandwidth
and this is where broadband communications satellites
come into the game.
<v ->Very good.</v>
Yeah, so definitely an evolution in satellite technology,
IOT solutions to broadband.
So maybe Joerg, maybe just talking still a little bit,
positioning satellite versus the terrestrial
kind of network technologies.
How do you see that?
And, I mean, there's a lot of this discussion
about convergence, right?
Between the two, NTN and terrestrial network.
So how do you see that play out today
and into the future?
<v ->Well, I mean all the use cases you mentioned</v>
are perfectly right
and the connectivity in itself is no longer an enabler,
it's a key requirement.
What we see is that there's a coexistence,
and you mentioned the important part of standardization.
So without standardization,
we will not manage to have cooperation
or coexisting solutions.
The key point is that the selection based on the use case.
So not every use case should use a certain technology,
but you select, the same way as we use our mobile phones.
So we have wifi, we have a cellular connection
and based on costs or availability or bandwidth,
we use one or the other.
The same will happen in car.
It's not today, but it will happen,
that priority setting, cost-effectiveness,
this orchestration of data, of channels is important
and it's not thinking about a car has a certain channel
or multiple channels,
but a service has a certain channel.
So maybe your navigation goes to one channel
but the updates are loaded once you're on the wifi.
So that's different thinking
and you have nothing available,
then you go non-terrestrial.
So that's basically the way we see
this selection of channels
and that's where the orchestration comes together.
It's not just looking at the pure connectivity
but the connectivity within a certain context,
like an over the air update or navigation
or things come together.
We are converging services
and that's what we are also working on.
Bring the product, bring a product together,
which includes the connectivity.
It's not just having siloed connectivity, siloed security,
siloed service, but one converged product.
I think that's where the future sits
and how connectivity is consumed in the future.
<v ->Yeah, thank you. That's an important point.</v>
So obviously, you know,
you have multiple channels to organize that.
I suppose there's software
and other capabilities built around it.
But from your perspective,
who would then be the one
who is kind of managing that?
Would that be the responsibility of an OEM
or where does that sit in your view?
<v ->Well, we are part of Deutsche Telecom</v>
and T-Mobile US.
Obviously the telco providers.
So no, that's not the true answer, the full answer.
In the end, it can be a service which comes from an MNO
or even a virtual MNO
to orchestrate based on the fleet demand
or the demand of a single car.
It can also be the vehicle itself,
if the logic is built into the vehicle
and then it comes to the upgradable software,
because these rules are changing based on what we are doing.
You have to change this on a regular basis,
maybe even as you use it.
Therefore, there are certain, I would say levels
or quality gates where you do this orchestration.
But the telcos will play a role, the OEMs will play a role,
any technology or connectivity provider will play a role
based on standards.
And that's the key point. No standards, no interaction.
<v ->If I just can add to that</v>
'cause I really like this point.
It's not a responsibility of just one company
and I think this is what happens
with software defined vehicles.
Before, we had this very isolated supply chain
in which each company was doing a certain thing.
But now, if you think about,
"Which connectivity should I use?"
and if you think about the use cases,
this is down to the vehicle
and this is down to the use case,
down to the application.
So you need to look at the application and see.
Is this a mission critical application or is it not?
If it is infotainment,
then I can have higher latency.
If it is an ADAS functionality,
what level of criticality
within the ADIS functionality it is?
'Cause there are different levels in the ADAS as well.
Is this something that,
if I don't have a real time response,
I will put someone's life in risk?
'Cause this is also important
when you are deciding
which connectivity you're going to use.
Because one thing that we need in vehicles,
especially when we're talking about ADAS,
is reliability, right?
Vehicles are not smartphones on wheels.
And honestly, I can't hear people saying that,
because vehicles are mission critical devices.
If you're using a smartphone
and suddenly you have a problem
and your screen was frozen,
that's fine.
You just reset it.
If that happens in a car,
you are putting the lives of the people inside the car
and the people around you at risk.
So I think this idea on,
"What connectivity should I use?"
and of course the optimal cost
has to happen in conjunction
of all the companies
because you need the data from the vehicle as well.
You need to understand what kind of functionality
is being used and required as well.
<v ->All right, maybe Sven in terms of the Ericsson view</v>
on this orchestration of the different channels
and who best can manage that
and how to work around it?
<v ->Well, orchestration is a pretty big word</v>
and pretty high up in the telecommunication architecture.
But I think it's a combination
between the CSPs
and the satellite network operators
that, of course, need to agree
what the business and business relation looks.
Who sort of owns the customers? Who do you connect with?
Is it your standard SIM
or is it the dedicated satellite SIM,
which is probably not preferred
'cause you want to address
the hundreds of millions of potential subscribers
and cars out there.
And then there's another question about
the development of,
let's call it the orchestration or the beam hoping
or the beam forming and everything,
which is something that is done depending on the technology,
but especially when it goes into 5G, NRM 10
and not for IOT, where you have more static beams.
It's a very delicate process
where you have to make decisions every millisecond
and look at your scheduler information,
where the actual users are.
And there we believe Ericsson is playing a vital role
in developing this.
<v ->Perfect.</v>
Well, let's get the opportunity to the audience
to join our conversation.
So if there's some questions, I can do two things.
I can give you my mic or you speak out loud.
So see your question here.
So give you my...
<v ->Thank you.</v>
Yeah, my name is Henry Lubkin,
I'm a venture capitalist
but many years have been in the car industry,
mainly VW and BMW.
Now
you didn't speak about
what is necessary on the car side.
On the car side,
if you have active faced array connectivity with satellite,
you have to bring a terminal somewhere on the roof.
It has to be hardware,
software wise integrated
into the architecture of the vehicle.
I don't see really in the car industry
that this is pushed hard.
They look at it,
but they have so many other things on the top of their head
that satellite connectivity is not on top of the list
as long as G4 and G5
kind of sufficiently supplies the connectivity.
You know, I see a slowness there.
What are you guys thinking about that?
How can that be pushed?
I think it would be a huge opportunity
to connect the cars for sure.
But you didn't talk about the car side,
which is a big, big step still to go.
It takes three, four years, five years
to integrate it into a vehicle architecture.
<v ->I can take a shot.</v>
I mean, the beauty with 5G, for example, or 4G,
is that every single device you buy,
it is guaranteed to work
and it's thoroughly tested for years, I would say,
in the lab.
So for example, Ericsson,
what we call interoperability testing.
That means that there is 100% probability
that your smartphone will work
when you take it out of the box.
And the same would go with car devices,
but of course,
you would have to integrate it physically into the car
and you would have to develop phased array technology
that is connected to this pretested chip sets
that you can get from, well, you know, the big companies.
So I think functionality wise,
it's a pretty short step to make it work.
Then it's a probably bigger challenge, of course,
to get the cost, the integration,
the beauty factor and everything into the car.
But the technology will work, guaranteed,
once you have the right satellites up there
and you have decided what spectrum to use.
<v ->Maybe to add on this, you're talking about cars.</v>
My view, also discussions we are having
is more on the other type of vehicles, trucks, machinery,
which are in regions and areas
where there's no terrestrial network available
or is a lower quality.
And here we have definitely a higher cost/benefit ratio
when you're building this into the vehicles.
I fully agree with you,
I don't see adoption in passenger cars, in vehicles,
in the near future.
Probably in the next or even the generation afterwards.
But for other type of vehicles, that's much more useful
and that's where technology will mature
and will get them better priced,
better, higher reliability, coming into larger fleets.
<v ->Indeed, actually ,</v>
this is something where for us,
in the market especially for IOT,
we had to come up with kind of temporary solution
of devices that could be integrated at the vehicle,
like using cameras or whatever,
which also have the antenna inside
in order to bridge the time
until the car manufacturer will start standardizing
or having that in.
But it also creates, like,
there are a lot of value added resellers today
creating such tracking devices or whatever
in the ecosystem to provide that service.
And indeed, as you said,
it depends also a lot on the use case of the spectrum
because for example, we use the S-band,
the two gigahertz,
and even we know it's like,
even inside the car, you would still get coverage
and with LEO, since you're coming from different angles,
you would capture the satellite
compared like, with geo where you need to be pointing
or you need to have very advanced beam forming.
But of course that's more
for narrow band IOT applications,
not like continuous streaming or broadband applications.
<v ->You can always roll down the window.</v>
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->Just to add to this,</v>
I think usually when we are having technical conversations,
unfortunately, business models is often not addressed.
So when we look at the commercial vehicle segment,
the business model is often very clear
because you can directly either monetize it
or you can save costs.
So the adoption is much easier,
but if you look at the private vehicles,
it's a bit more complicated.
And quite frankly, it has been very difficult
to monetize connectivity in private vehicles so far.
I'm sorry, but you guys know. (laughs)
It's not like it has a high adoption,
and in my opinion,
it's because the business model so far has been incorrect.
I don't think you need to,
you should ask the final customer
to pay for connectivity.
For me, that doesn't make any sense.
Think about how many drivers don't have a phone
and are not already paying for data in their phones.
So then suddenly you were saying,
"Oh, why don't you pay again?"
And what are you gaining from that?
So what what we have to do is actually,
we have the tech.
Look at this,
we have several companies offering the tech,
but actually what we have to think is,
"What am I offering to my customer?"
Consumer pays for value.
I'm not gonna pay for connectivity
because I don't see value in paying for connectivity.
But if my car is offering a functionality
that adds value for me.
so if my car, if the company that,
I dunno, if I'm driving a BMW
and I have a feature that updates
and upgrades my parking feature, for example,
and suddenly I buy my vehicle,
my vehicle is capable of semi-automated driving, right?
So the wheel moves and I have to use the actuators,
but then six months later I have an update,
and my car is capable of fully automated driving.
The car didn't change, the sensors didn't change,
but now I don't have to do anything
and the car parks and I just watch it.
Six months later, I get an update
and I can park my car a few meters away
from the parking space.
I leave my car, I use my phone, I press a button,
the car goes and parks itself
and I can summon the car.
I would pay for that.
Connectivity is embedded in this
because the OEM will have to have some level of connectivity
to change this functionality over the air.
But I'm not paying for connectivity, I'm paying for value.
And this is, I think,
something that we should be discussing.
What is the value
the satellite is going to add to the customer?
And if it is adding value,
then increasing the bill of materials of the vehicle,
it's okay, it's something that you have to deal with
because you're going to monetize in another way.
<v ->And maybe Kieran,</v>
can you maybe talk about how you view
or from your discussion with OEM side,
kind of the benefits of the software defined car?
Let's maybe start there
and you know,
because we still talk about relatively limited adoption,
is then the benefits versus the cost
not kind of adding up at this point?
<v ->I think it's already been mentioned by yourself as well.</v>
I think the OEMs are faced with
a lot of transition and transformation.
So there's, of course, the shift now towards BEV,
which they've had to handle.
Now there's the hype around SDV.
It's delayed,
the adoption is not there, it should be there.
Then there's now the requirements for cybersecurity.
And also infotainment as well.
I think also in the future,
it was also mentioned by some of the colleagues,
it's no point looking at it individual technology
by technology by technology
because bringing the technology is not so difficult.
There's always an interaction of the dependencies on this.
So there will be a big dependency on the infotainment
with the ADAS, et cetera.
And we already see that the OEMs,
with the transitions that they're faced with now,
are already struggling on the system level.
So when you design these features,
you don't really think about how to test and validate them.
And this is underestimated.
Then it's not easy in a global market
for automotive manufacturers.
So you have to,
you have one market
and then you have to adopt this for other markets.
It may be simple things like road signs,
behaviors, whatever.
And this is estimated
it can also take about 40% additional efforts
just for this adoption.
So I agree that the technology is one thing,
but we need to be looking at it
more on the system complexity and the system integration.
And if we already look at the market,
we can see some OEMs already struggling with this, you know?
There's already significant delays.
They're canceling vehicles by 12 months
and basically, it's the same message.
It's around software integration issues.
This is what they're currently struggling with.
And so I think going forward,
it's not so much the technology on its own,
it's, we need to have a bigger, wider understanding
on how this completely operates as a complete system
and then, importantly, how to test this
and validate it in the most efficient way
that it can be brought into more stream
and released to the market.
<v ->May I add to this?</v>
So you mentioned system integration.
I would go even one step further into operations,
fleet operations.
Because once this is out in the market,
it's there for 10 years, 10 plus years.
You have to do the upgrades.
Someone has to pay for it.
The consumer typical will not pay for it.
So there are continued costs on it and we see it.
We operate fleets for OEMs
and there's a a tremendous effort
in managing the software, security updates,
whatever needs to be done,
roll it out and keep it operating for long period of time.
And 10 years means two, three,
even four technology generations.
So where change is happening,
that's where standardization is such important
that you don't have to change every other day.
But that's where the complexity is coming from.
It's not the initial technology introduction,
it's getting it out, get it integrated,
get it rollout,
get it into different regulatory,
regional regulatory requirements
and then operate over time.
So that's where the big cost's coming from.
<v ->Okay, good.</v>
All right, let me see if there's other audience questions.
If you have a question please raise your hand.
I'll try to see.
You are, okay.
Well, it was a good question.
I'll allow a second unless, oh no, sure.
<v Woman>Thank you. I arrived a little late.</v>
So I do apologize
if this controversial topic has already been brought up.
But if you can share with me what is your,
for each of you that would like to respond to this,
what is the worst case scenario
and what is the best case scenario for you
as it relates to Elon's vertically integrated possibility
with Tesla and SpaceX and Starlink?
<v ->Okay, let me start.</v>
So we are,
from the type of business we are doing,
as Deutsche Telecom and T-Systems operations perspective,
it's another partner in the market.
So there's a partnership of T-Mobile US and SpaceX.
So as an example.
So it happens also for other market components
or sub-markets.
So I think of this market or this whole topic
we are talking about, SDV, as a collaboration market.
Obviously there are some companies, entities
which are very innovative
and bring things into the market, disrupt the market.
I personally would say it's good
because then something is happening,
I don't see it as a threat.
It's something which develops us
and challenge us from time to time.
<v ->I completely agree.</v>
I think we should,
technology has to evolve
and you know, regardless of all the polemic,
we are just talking about software defined vehicles today
because of Tesla, right?
Of course, if it wasn't them, it would be someone else.
But what I'm trying to say is, we can't stop innovation
and innovation only happens vertically
when you don't have an ecosystem.
'Cause it's the same thing
with the software defined vehicle architecture.
The reason why Tesla is completely vertically integrated
in the whole vehicle architecture
is because there wasn't an ecosystem,
because quite frankly it's much cheaper
to just buy technology
that you were not an expert in
than developing your own, right?
So again, if they do this, we may grow a market
that we're gonna have more suppliers
and the market's going to grow.
So it's good.
<v ->All right, good question. Good question.</v>
I'm not sure my mic is on.
We have a few more minutes.
Let me just see if there's any other questions here.
Speak loud.
Good.
I think we can maybe leave it
to the last question.
Before that, I just want to go back to the Tesla.
It's actually an interesting point
if you just think about it,
where they are today,
SpaceX and Starlink,
so they offer a lot of different markets.
They're offering kind of the broadband connectivity,
but connectivity to the car is not at a broadband level.
So clearly from their perspective as well,
it has not been a primary use case.
When this new satellite constellation come into the market,
will be interesting to see how they move forward.
But you know, that was actually really well related
to my last question,
'cause we covered a lot of topics about business case,
affordability, technical challenges,
but is there anything that we didn't discuss
so far in the topic of software defined vehicles,
in the topic of connected cars
that you know, we should be discussing
and you want to do a quick pitch about it
in the last two and a half minutes we have?
So anyone that wants to go first to highlight something
or just summarize a key takeaway,
that's also allowed, but...
<v ->Maybe I start.</v>
So just, I think, if we want the adoption to speed up,
I think it's already kinda been mentioned,
there needs to be kind of a more open architecture.
And more collaboration.
I think without this,
we can bring a certain level of standardization, et cetera,
but to really speed it up
and bring more mass adoption,
we really should be looking
for a kind of more open architecture
and a more joint collaboration,
which maybe hasn't been that prevalent
in the automotive industry previously.
So I think this would be for me.
<v ->Yeah, I see automotive</v>
as one of the really driving use segments
and really the need of having one technology that is common
between the normal way of operating,
which is the terrestrial networks, good cost,
good through-puts and everything,
complemented with what you can call auto coverage services
with the same kind of basic technology
that doesn't drive additional cost,
which is a disadvantage with Starlink and Tesla,
of course, currently.
<v ->I think one thing we could do</v>
to accelerate also the timeline of adoption
of connectivity over satellites for cars
is harmonization on spectrum,
because this is a very critical point.
There will be a lot of regulatory aspects there.
The access to spectrum is different
from region to region,
and now on I2 level on WRC,
this is being harmonized,
but until it's adopted in all countries,
until the operators have the access
to provide such global coverage in every country,
it's gonna take time.
But also, it requires also continuous discussion
with the OEMs and the chip makers and the telcos also
in order to have, in the end,
global connectivity everywhere over satellite
because you don't want to end up
with very complex antennas that cover different bands
in different regions,
and you wanna have, like,
only a few bands that are standardized
for vehicle connectivity over satellite.
<v ->Maybe one thought here.</v>
Software defined vehicle and the whole industry
should also look to other industries.
So it's not the first industry
where software defined is a common term.
So software defined networks is at least 10 plus years old.
And there are a lot of learnings, from my point of view,
from software defined networks to software defined vehicles.
Standardization's one, open source is one.
So you don't have to reinvent the wheel
again and again and again
and build your own operating system.
So there are a lot of stuff which can be shared
and have a common ground.
And this is probably also a thought
which helps us
for the next one or two generations in SDVs.
<v ->Do I have time to end on a polemic note?</v>
First thing, I think satellite connectivity
should be positioned in what it does best.
I don't think it will replace
any other kind of connectivity.
It's going to be used
when you don't have other connectivity available.
And some of the use cases that I heard in here,
they require high bandwidth, they require low latency,
they require reliability.
Will satellite be able to deliver that
to the automotive grade level?
I dunno.
Second point, the business case for connectivity
has been incorrect for a long time in automotive.
This has happened with satellite connectivity,
this has happened with V2X
and it could happen with satellites connectivity
if we don't do things differently.
If you keep doing the same things,
you can't expect different results.
And I think this is an opportunity to change things.
<v ->All right, thank you very much.</v>
That sums up very well.
There's still a lot of things to do,
a lot of work to do for all of us,
but I think, you know,
definitely, the value is recognized.
Please join me in thanking the panelists.