My name is Brian Tegtmeyer.
I'm with NHTSA
and the office of EMS
and the National 911 program.
Welcome to our session today on "Connected Vehicle Safety:
Reducing Roadway Risk and Saving Lives."
I've got a great panel here
and we're gonna spend our time
going through a variety of topics and questions
that we have to talk about connected vehicles
and how they reach 911 and how that can impact lives.
Before I start though,
I wanna spend just a couple minutes
framing this issue for you.
And first of all,
introduce what we do at NHTSA's National 911 program.
We work to enhance highway safety.
We do that by creating and sharing resources,
collaborating with our stakeholders,
and connecting the system's 911 centers nationwide.
When we look at this issue,
we look at it from the point of view
of the National Roadway Safety Strategy
and our Safe System Approach.
of the Safe System Approach.
We are involved with safer people.
When risky behavior happens, they call 911.
When someone's driving under the influence,
reckless, distracted driving,
that results in calls to 911.
Safer roads, if the roads are unsafe,
if there's debris, lights are out,
or other hazards,
it results in calls to 911.
When we have safer speeds,
vehicles driving unsafe at speeds,
our 911 centers
are our nation's law enforcement dispatch center
and they're involved in the enforcement
of speed and traffic laws
and relaying that information to their law enforcement.
And then we're gonna talk about this a lot,
the safer vehicles,
how does advanced automatic crash notification
play into connecting the vehicle to the 911 centers
and transmit critical data through the telemetry?
And then finally, all of this is for when a crash occurs,
we have post crash care.
And that begins with the call to 911
and our nation's 911 telecommunicators
that work to identify the caller location,
the nature of the crash,
and the severity of the incident
to make sure we can send the most appropriate help.
So when I talk about this,
one of the things I like to demonstrate and talk about
is having a continuity and a consistent level of care.
So we look at the Interstate I-95,
our nation's longest North-South interstate
from Maine to Florida,
and it goes through 15 states in the District of Columbia
and there's almost 200 911 jurisdictions there.
So as you can imagine,
if a crash occurs along this roadway,
the level of training, the technology,
the staffing of those 911 centers
and how this information from a connected vehicle
gets into the 911 centers
and their current state of next generation 911
is gonna dramatically vary.
And that's what we need to do,
is that we are advocating to push the bar higher
and make sure that if a crash occurs along this roadway,
that the minimum level of data that we need
is received to all of our nation's 911 centers.
To frame that further,
when emergency responds to crashes,
we are estimated at NHTSA
that there are 13 million motor vehicle crashes a year.
in law enforcement being dispatched,
and 1.5 million of those crashes
result in EMS being dispatched.
And we know in those 1.5 million crashes of EMS
that there's almost 170,000 people
critically or seriously injured.
Over 55,000 of those crash victims
need to be extricated from the vehicle.
And over 8,700 are partially or completely ejected
from the vehicle.
So this is a serious situation we're dealing with
and there is a lot of severity.
All of that results
in over 42,000 traffic fatalities a year.
We have seen this number dropping in the last couple years
and we're happy for that.
But one of the most important facts that we can share
is that of the 42,000 fatalities on our roadway,
42% were alive when EMS arrived on scene.
We can drive that number down
if we can get the right help there
in the right way with the right information
to improve the outcome of those patients.
The 911 system is not a national 911 system.
There are over 5,400 911 centers across our nation
and they work independently
at a local and at a state level.
30% of our 911 centers are two seat centers or less.
70% are five seat centers or less.
And why is that important?
'Cause you probably have an image based on TV or the news
showing large 911 centers with all of this technology
and all these people working,
but that's not the reality.
70% of our centers are five seat centers or less,
and they have different abilities, capabilities,
and technology that can get the call
into their 911 centers to process that information.
So we're gonna talk about this today with our panel.
We're gonna talk about it from a 911 point of view,
from a telematics service provider's point of view,
and from connected vehicles.
And that is our goal.
So we've got some question prepared
and I'm gonna sit down and start that process now.
So first question, one second,
it's gonna go to the 911 community,
and I'm gonna ask Ty and Jennifer,
and they're each gonna introduce themselves when they start,
but what do you think
is the single most important piece of information
that 911 centers currently do not have access to
that could positively impact post crash care?
Jennifer?
<v ->Hi Brian, thanks so much.</v>
My name is Jennifer Kirkland.
I'm the State 911 program manager for Colorado.
I have 23 years of experience in 911 centers,
both as a 911 telecommunicator,
all the way up to leading the 911 centers.
And I'm also heavily involved in 911 across the nation
in various ways.
To answer your question directly,
I think there's no one single piece of information
that would be most helpful.
The first one that comes to mind
is maybe number of patients involved in a vehicle.
But what I'd like to highlight is the fact,
something you touched upon in your introduction,
which is that there are 5,400 911 centers across the country
and there is a wide disparity
of both technology availability in those 911 centers
and training availability.
Because 911 is administered at the local level
and sometimes the state level,
there's a wide, wide discrepancy
in the availability of technology.
Some of those 911 centers have state-of-the-art technology
and can take all of the information
that is available to you.
And some of them still work with paper and pen
to get that information out to the field responders.
So the first question is,
is there availability to get that technology
and that information and data coming into the 911 center?
The second thing I'll touch upon is the human aspect of 911.
So in the United States,
there is no national minimum training standard
for 911 telecommunicators.
That is left up to the states
and some states have a minimum training standard
for 911 telecommunicators,
and some do not.
Unfortunately, Colorado is one that does not,
which means that if you call 911 from this room
and reach the 911 center,
there's gonna be a different level of training
than there might be if you go to Colorado and call 911
and say a rural area,
the level of care that you're receiving from the very get go
of your emergency
is going to be vastly different.
So I think as we move forward into technology and data
and what we can get from those connected vehicles,
it's important that we remember that those 911 calls
begin and end with a human being in that 911 center.
And we have to make sure
that they have the training and knowledge
necessary in order to process that call
and to get that data from the connected vehicles
and all of the ways that we can get that data
and get it out to the field responders
and working coordination to drive that,
that fatality number down.
I'll turn it over to Ty.
<v ->Hi, my name's Ty Wooten.</v>
I'm the Director of Government Affairs
for the International Academies of Emergency Dispatch.
We create standardized protocols
that are used in 911 centers
and emergency dispatch centers around the world.
We're in almost 2,600 911 centers in the US
and our protocols are translated
into 29 different languages
and are used in 59 different countries worldwide.
I think from my perspective,
the information coming into the 911 center,
it's really key.
You know, as Jennifer talked about,
it's about a lot of the human element,
but part of it is also understanding
the standardization of the data that's coming in.
From a perspective relative to the OEMs
and the vehicle manufacturers,
you know, having consistent data
that comes in in a consistent way is incredibly important.
Every time we have a variation
in way the information is delivered
to the 911 center,
that creates additional training components
and additional aspects
that each individual 911 center has to manage.
And so because of the wide variety
of 911 centers across the US
and there are different levels of capability,
whether it be technology and or their training,
we need to make it as consistent as possible
so that when the data comes in,
they don't have to go,
"Okay, it's Tuesday after a full moon,
and I now need to stand on my left foot
and jump three times in the circle
to remember what I'm supposed to do.
We need to make it as user friendly
and as straightforward as possible.
And so standardization of the data and the data sets
is critically important.
<v ->And building on what both of you guys talked about,</v>
I think one of the challenges is that,
you know, the data that's available
and coming into our centers now
from the different telematics service providers
who are gonna talk next,
it works differently in different places, right?
So when we talk about this need,
it's not working the same
across the United States right now.
It can work differently.
Can you build on that?
<v ->Yeah, I mean not only does everybody</v>
have these different variations in the 911 center,
but also permeate that into the field response.
So if you're in metro Las Vegas,
you have a lot more resources and capabilities
than you have in rural Colorado
or rural Nebraska
where things are completely different
and where it may take you 45 minutes to an hour
just to get to the patient.
And that's where standardized protocols
and utilizing methods like that
so that we can provide enhancements
and provide response,
whether it's someone who is a bystander,
so we can coach them through CPR or stopping the bleed
or whatever that may be across those mechanisms.
That is huge
because not every jurisdiction has the same resources,
not only in 911,
but as well in the field.
<v ->And I would build on that</v>
and say keeping 911 professionals in the conversation
as you build out that technology is imperative
because 911 professionals look at the situation
from a different perspective
than a law enforcement officer or an EMS professional.
So making sure that they're still involved in that
and continue to be involved in that conversation
is imperative.
<v ->Right, the information that 911 needs is much different</v>
to be able to make the correct determination of what to send
than maybe some of the information
that we will ultimately relay to those field responders.
But we have to have critical first level information first
to be able to get the right response out
so that those field responders can then take it from there.
We'll relay that other additional information,
but we've gotta make sure
that we're getting the right stuff first.
And that's where it's critical
to have 911 engaged in the conversation
because without that,
everybody kind of skips over that part.
And this is a critical thing to remember,
every single call that happens in the field
starts with a 911 call
and it comes through that 911 center
and they're the ones that are managing the logistics
of getting everybody else out to the field.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
I think that's great
and I think the challenge that a, you know,
we're here at a technology conference,
this isn't as much,
what I'm hearing is it's not as much
of a technology challenge as a technology adoption
that 911 hasn't adopted the full level of technology
that's available to them
in what we call in the 911 industry,
next generation 911,
that's not been as widely adopted across every state
and across all the 5,400 911 centers.
So at some point when that full adoption occurs,
we can get this technology and the data
into the centers differently.
But right now it comes in in a variety of ways.
<v ->Right, and we're kind of working off old technology</v>
from the 1930s, 1940s today.
So we have, you know,
we walked the floors this morning
and we saw tons of amazing technology,
and I'm excited about the future.
But unfortunately, we don't have the capability today
to receive the information
that many of you have,
that you want to push to us.
We just can't take it
because we're working off old school systems
and we're moving that way, but we're not there yet.
We don't know,
like the fundamental question of where are you
is huge in 911.
Domino's knows where you are,
Uber knows where you are,
but we can't pinpoint you like they can.
And so just that fundamental question
is important to remember.
<v ->So next vital part of getting crash notifications</v>
from the vehicle into 911
is through our partners at telematics service providers.
So I'm gonna tee this question off
to Jim and Steve to go next,
but can you guys talk about the importance
of your streamlining data
that comes into the 911 telecommunicators?
And with all those different data points that are available,
what should technology companies know
as they strive to get more data into the centers?
<v ->Yeah, so I'm Steve Coker.</v>
I run SiriusXM Connect.
It's a telematics service provider.
We have more than 13 million active subscribers
that we provide services to,
including crash notification, SOS, and related services.
We handle over a hundred crash events every single day.
And so this, you know,
is near and dear to my heart
is because we really are out there trying to figure out
how do we save lives every day.
I think it's helpful to take a brief step back
and understand from the,
you know, PSAP perspective
or the evolution of how data has been transmitted.
And, you know, for the longest time,
and we've been in business for over 30 years,
you know, we get the call from the car,
we then in turn call the PSAP,
the relevant PSAP,
and we've had to verbally communicate
all the relevant information
up into really the past few years.
And only very recently, you know,
through a partnership we have with RapidSOS
are able to now digitally transmit
the data that we can collect digitally from the vehicle
and send it directly to the PSAP as opposed to having to,
you know, stop and communicate verbally
every piece of information
like the latitude and longitude.
And when you're communicating lots of detailed data,
you have error problems and the like,
that takes time.
And what we found is, you know,
we save on average 37 seconds
of providing a critical information to the PSAP
and seconds saved saves lives.
So we're really excited about that
and we think it's a real step forward
in how we can help save lives.
But with the ability
to digitally transmit information to the PSAP,
now we sort of have the converse problem,
which is we can send all kinds of data
and we have, you know,
OEMs and tier one providers suggesting,
"Hey, we've got this really interesting thing
that we'd like to provide that might be useful to the PSAP.
And so we, as the TSPs,
have this intermediary role to help try and figure out,
well, what's the most important information,
how much data should we really send?
Just 'cause we can doesn't mean we should provide it.
And I think it's really important to understand,
we had a great visit at the end of last year
to the PSAP in Wheaton, Illinois.
I'm a former first responder,
I was a deputy sheriff for a few years,
and ours was a pen and paper
with a radio at the time.
These folks have up to 10 screens,
five keyboards, five mice,
to try and manage this.
The cognitive overload
that we are asking the public safety telecommunicators
to deal with is really significant.
And when you provide cognitive overload
in such a critical place,
like it's really important that we simplify
and reduce that complexity.
So I think we're really working to,
as part of the standards of vehicle emergency data set
and related things to say,
"Hey, let's narrow down what's really important
and most importantly for the telecommunicator,
what's actionable for them in making the dispatch decision.
And I think those parts are really critical to,
let's do that in a consistent way.
And I'm gonna leave it to Jim
to talk a little bit more about the consistency
and the work we're doing together to try and make sure that,
but I think that's a really critical aspect.
<v ->No, that's a great point.</v>
And I just wanna, we have,
as all technology people, we have a lot of acronyms.
PSAP is the Public Safety Answering Point,
another term for a 911 center.
So I wanna make sure we all stand on top
that that's what we're talking about there.
So we talk about 911 centers and PSAPs and ECCs
all as synonymous org entities.
But Jim, why don't you go ahead
and build on the type of data
and how that data will make a difference
in a dispatch decision by those 911 telecommunicators.
<v ->Great, thank you and great stuff so far.</v>
So I'm Jim Lanier with OnStar.
OnStar is a subsidiary of GM,
a wholly-owned subsidiary.
OnStar's been providing crash services
to its members since 1996.
And apologize, a little bit of a froggy voice today.
But again, this is great stuff to kind of build on it
and take to the next level of the conversation.
You know, at OnStar we have the same challenges
as far as when we work closely
with our public safety partners,
making sure that we're providing relevant information
in a way that that's timely and efficient and effective.
So going back to, for example,
you know, old school,
and we still do it today,
is the verbal handoff when we receive a crash notification
to ensure that public safety is getting the information.
But again, it's a verbal handoff
and we do have a digital alternative as well
with some of our PSAP partners out there
where we utilize a company called RapidDeploy
that pushes our information digitally
out to the 911 centers.
But where this becomes a bit of a challenge
is the 911 centers have this separate workstation
that they have to access to get this information.
So when you're hearing about next generation 911
in terms like that,
and the next generation actually a telematics per se,
is to bring this information into the 911 centers
into the public safety ecosystem.
Not just available for 911,
but those downstream that need it,
the first responders, trauma centers, et cetera.
So it's integrated into the call handling workflow.
And what I mean by that,
if I'm a 911 telecommunicator,
and been there, done that,
and had the multiple screens and so forth,
and it's very frustrating
if I have to leave my usual comfort zone
of here's how a call comes in,
here's what I do with it,
here's how I dispatch it.
We go swivel over here and try and do something here
and it's not integrated with my other system.
So it becomes a bit of a gludge.
And when you're short staffed
and you have other pressures,
it's just not the most effective way.
So I'm going all this is, again,
circling back to we need to work towards integration.
And for the technology providers out there,
those that can provide information,
crash notifications, smart streets, internet of things,
vehicle connectivity data,
one thing, please, please, please
to kind of build on something said earlier
is don't assume it's plug and play.
You know, the 911 technology is not plug and play.
It's not a native IP environment yet in many places.
So what we need to do collectively is work as an industry
to ensure that we're treating 911 as a customer
and taking into consideration their needs.
But there's opportunities there.
The good news is there's a lot of energy behind this.
This is what our seventh panel I think
that we've had doing this.
We had the data summit that NHTSA hosted for us last year,
which was very, very powerful,
a lot to OEMs and third party service providers,
trauma surgeons, 911 professionals, et cetera.
We had a big mix there.
But the energy behind that was to,
let's collectively start to work on this.
So for example, Steve mentioned VEDS,
the Vehicle Emergency Data Set,
this is a 911 standard.
This is a standard put together,
ANSI approved by the two large 911 associations
collaborated on this
and revised it just a couple of years ago.
And this provides a platform to allow technology providers
to be able to provide information coming from, for example,
a third party service provider
like OnStar, SiriusXM, or Bosch.
You got crash notification,
be able to provide that to the 911 centers
in a consistent manner.
So for all the technology providers out there
can theoretically through a common interface,
be able to take this information in.
The telecommunicator doesn't have to worry about,
oh, is this a call from a Mercedes vehicle
or Bosch or SiriusXM or an OnStar GM vehicle.
It's gonna show up the same way for them every time.
And included with that comes thing
such as injury severity prediction,
which is an extremely important component in all this.
If you have indications initially in the call
that the person has a high probability
of being severely injured,
and please keep in mind with trauma,
a lot of trauma does happen because of what happens inside,
you don't see it initially,
you know, from the trauma perspective,
you might walk up and they seem fine,
but if the vehicle is saying there's been enough force here
to indicate they possibly,
or probably having an internal injury,
they need to go to a trauma center.
So in these rural environments
where I might take 45 minutes
to get out there as a paramedic,
I'm doing everything I can to get there.
But if I know early,
this is why I'm gonna launch a helicopter early.
Most of you are probably familiar
with what's called the golden hour.
The patient needs to be in surgery
within an hour of the time of the incident,
not from when EMS gets there
and put that in context
with 40 plus percent of these patients are alive
when EMS arrives.
But how long did it take 'em to get there?
How much of that golden hour is going away?
So we have a real opportunity to work together
with the OEMs, TSPs, NHTSA, COVESA, other groups to say,
"You know, we can do better with this
because there's standards out there.
We just need to start bringing
the right stakeholders together
and making it easier on everybody involved."
<v ->Oh, that's great.</v>
And I think that's an important part,
Jim, you talked about,
is that this data can drive a different response.
So in our EMS community
and in my partners in NHTSA's office of EMS
is that there is different levels of training.
There's basic level EMTs, paramedic trained EMTs,
and we want advanced life support responding
when there's serious trauma.
We want that critical care helicopter
or other treatment notified
because you are getting the right treatment
and the right care has the biggest potential of outcome,
you know, to that patient.
So getting them to a trauma center
can improve their odds by over 25%.
Just getting them to the right level of trauma center.
And that's what's key.
And that data from the vehicle,
like the mechanism of injury
and the injury predictive scores can really detail that.
So our next group are more in the automotive
and technology industry
and I'm gonna start with them and ask this question of,
you know, what do we think
hearing what we've heard from the 911 and the TSPs,
what can OEMs and other automotive technology leaders do
to help 911 advance post crash care response?
And this is one of those areas
where it can be even a little non-traditional,
not just crash notification,
but other ways that we're gonna make an impact
within the automotive industry?
Tim, you wanna start?
<v ->Yeah, thanks.</v>
So Tim VanGoethem,
I'm the Chief product officer
for a company called Emergency Safety Solutions.
Our focus is to reduce the number of fatalities and injuries
that result from either a vulnerable vehicle
or a disabled vehicle.
Whether they're on the roadside
because they've been in a crash
or they're just dealing with a breakdown
like a flat tire.
I also have the privilege of co-chairing the COVESA,
Connected Safety Birds of Feather.
So we have been in this conversation.
And both ESS and COVESA are thinking about this
in terms of kind of a progression of value chain, right?
Because there's a lot of people involved
in a crash situation.
Certainly the victims themselves,
the first responders that are coming,
the dispatchers that are trying to program a response,
and eventually people in the hospital
that are gonna receive those victims.
So the way we've been thinking about this
is how do we kind of understand all of the stakeholders
that are involved in what their collective needs are.
From our view, stage one is we need to notify, right?
And that notification can certainly be to the PSAPs.
You talked about the simple thing, Ty,
of just knowing where a crash has occurred.
It was astounding to me
to learn through our earlier conversations
how blind the 911 call centers and the dispatchers are,
as well as our friends in the TSP community.
I just assumed,
you know, that was in place,
'cause I was part of the Motorola team
that built genuine OnStar.
So I know what the car is capable of doing
and it was astounding to learn
that all the downstream stakeholders
was not getting that simple piece of information.
But we can notify other things.
We can notify the other drivers that are approaching, right?
'Cause even though we're desperate
to prevent crashes,
when they occur,
we need to stop the pileups,
the secondary collisions,
or especially this time of year,
the multi-car pileups that really turn, you know,
a bad situation into tragedy.
So how do we notify people of things?
From emergency safety solutions perspective,
we also wanna protect the scene.
How do we use things like reimagined lighting
or other ways to use line of sight tools
to communicate to the approaching motorists
that there's something in front of them,
whether that's a crash
or somebody on the side of the road
dealing with a flat tire.
And we've deployed these kind of technologies
out into the field already.
And then the last step is response.
How do we program the right response?
So just kind of building on what my colleagues have said,
it's around understanding the characteristics of the crash.
How many cars were involved?
How many people were in the car?
Were they belted, right?
Have they been injected?
That was another kind of interesting thing
for me to understand.
I believed ignorantly
that one of the most important things to understand
is that has the airbag deployed.
What I was astounded to learn is if the airbag has deployed,
there's still a very high probability
like the occupants are okay.
'Cause the automotive industry has done an amazing job
of building crash resilient cars.
But if they've been injected, very different outcome.
And I just didn't expect that.
So how do we understand the characteristics of the crash?
How many people were involved?
Were they belted?
Did they stay in the car?
And then if we can also bridge that to who was in the car
and be able to share, you know,
managing all the privacy topics that obviously get involved.
But do they have medical conditions?
How old are they?
Are they allergic to certain medicines?
And as that information conglomerates
and moves through this value chain,
then I think each of the stakeholders then
will have the information they need
to program the right response and drive a great outcome.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
<v ->Steal that from you.</v>
Hi, my name is Kathy Boden Holland.
I'm the CEO of Mindr.
Mindr is kind of the odd duck out in this group
in that we are the country's largest provider
of ignition interlock devices and services.
An IID is what you would have in your car
if you have had a DUI.
There are programs that are managed in every state.
I am, too, from Colorado,
which has an excellent program,
and we operate in all 50 states.
Just to give you some perspective on size
because people often think of DUI
as something that happens to someone else,
there's a 900,000 DUI arrests annually,
which is actually fewer arrests than pre-COVID.
And yet fatalities associated with substance
has gone up post-COVID.
So it is not that behavior has gotten better or different,
it's actually that enforcement has gone down
not for reasons,
anything that are different
than most companies are dealing with,
which is recruitment and training,
something we've talked about here.
But certainly from a law enforcement perspective,
it's a significant, significant issue.
So we are very much in the keeping our safer people quadrant
of the NHTSA model.
We stop amongst our customer base,
approximately a quarter million
attempted drunk driving events on an annual basis.
But I will tell you
that one of the greatest competitors to us as a company
is non-compliance.
So what that means is that you've had a DUI,
you are to have an IID in your car and you simply don't.
So enforcement of having the IID in the car is even harder
than the enforcement of impaired driving.
An IID is the only proven technology out there
to lower both DUIs,
as well as recidivism.
So actually DUIs are about two thirds of them
are first time offenders.
So it's not always a chronic alcohol issue.
It's a chronic bad decision making issue.
I say all that
because I wanted to just add to this conversation
that something that I think Tim touched on briefly
that the reason compliance is an issue
is something that I think holds its head up here
in this challenge, which is privacy.
All of us are probably really,
we have a huge digital footprint.
Our cars know a lot about us
as do our phones, as do our laptops,
and all the people who are building and operating those,
many of whom are probably in the room today.
We have a huge amount of data,
and the individuals
whose data that is about are not,
are becoming, I think, more and more savvy
about not wanting that to be publicly available,
or even publicly available for good intention, right?
And once you've been in a crash
is not the time to decide you wanna opt in.
And so making sure
that we have both a complete picture of people,
but then also full transparency
as to how and when it may be shared
is I think one of the great challenges
to what we're talking about here today.
I will tell you that that non-compliance
that I talked about as being a competitive issue for us,
we've done the research,
obviously we wanna figure out
why non-compliance is an issue,
and privacy is one of the key factors.
We thought it would be more about not wanting to pay for it,
but it turns out
that that's actually much farther down the list.
And again, it's not necessarily
because they intend to be an impaired driver again,
but because they simply don't wanna have
that kind of tracking on an ongoing basis
and are willing to,
I'll say, you know,
break the rules, break the law,
however you wanna describe it,
in order to avoid that.
So I just kinda wanted to add that to this discussion
or highlight, maybe reraise that to this discussion.
What data would be really valuable to the ecosystem
has to be, you know,
the Venn diagram of what data people want
to be available to the ecosystem
has to also be considered.
And what I would like in the ecosystem probably differs
when I need it to be in the ecosystem
than in advance when I'm asking myself that question.
<v ->Yeah, thanks Kathy.</v>
And that's a great point.
And as a couple people have alluded to,
this conversation that we're having today
is a continuation that really started back in June
in Michigan at an event
and where I've met Tim and Steve
and some others that are on this panel
that we've been building on.
And one of the things that we've recognized
is that whether it's standards,
whether it's data issues,
our concerns with this,
we've been working in different silos.
The 911 community has had its silo,
even TSPs have had their silos,
OEMs definitely have theirs.
But we look at these problems differently.
Tim and I were at that first event together
and our second speaking in a situation similar to this,
he was talking about privacy.
And from my point of view as a 911 professional,
we don't worry about privacy.
It's implicit that if you call 911,
you're waiving your privacy.
If you call 911 on your phone,
we are going to, you know,
we get to decide what we're gonna do,
whether we send police.
Whether if you sit there and say,
"No, no, don't send the police."
Yeah, that's not your call as the caller.
Once you've called us,
we decide who we send, when we send them,
how fast we send them in the 911 world.
So married into the privacy issue of the data
and the data being developed in different standards
and in different silos
has been a fascinating side put of this.
And as we've said, I think, you know,
you hear me speaking from NHTSA,
I'm not speaking from the NHTSA regulatory point of view.
I'm in the Office of Behavior, Research, and Development,
and we're working on this
from how to interface and collaborate
within the 911 community.
We've got five minutes left and that's great.
We've done well to stay on time.
I just would ask anyone on the panel of any final words
as far as this importance of connecting this data
to our 911 community
and our challenges that are ahead of us
or maybe some of the things we've already seen
since we've engaged in the last seven months
some steps forward on.
<v ->Well, I will just say that from my perspective,</v>
working in the 911 industry for 30 years,
the last eight months
has been the most exciting in this conversation
that I've ever seen in my 30 years.
Because to the point that I believe it was Jim
and others have made is that,
and Brian just made,
we've been working in individual silos
and we've been looking at things
from our own individual perspectives.
And in the last eight months,
we have made a tremendous amount of strides
to kind of break those silos down
and have a whole lot more conversations
and have an opportunity
for things to really begin to switch
and begin to kind of work
towards common goals and common outcomes.
And that I think is the most exciting part for me
in the 911 industry
and moving this discussion forward.
<v ->Yeah, and I would build on that</v>
and just say that part of what has come out of that
is also the recognition of 911 as its own profession
not tied specifically to law enforcement, fire, EMS.
Field response definitely has a place at the table,
but having 911 specifically at the table
to provide their input from that specific perspective
has been extremely beneficial.
<v ->Well, and I think that builds</v>
on like what Tim was talking about
as far as even when a crash occurs,
we have challenges for people moving over
and preventing struck bys.
And you've done a webinar with our office
on 911's role in traffic incident management,
and that's something the 911 community
needs to learn a lot more about, right?
<v ->Yeah, and making sure that 911 professionals</v>
are the beginning and the end of the training,
not just as a side.
"Oh yeah, and 911 will do this."
Well, how is 911 gonna do that?
We need to think about that piece of link in the chain.
<v ->I think one of the key benefits,</v>
and I agree wholly with Ty
that I've seen more progress in the last year
than any time that I've been associated with this.
And personally, I've spent some good conversations with Jim
and with our colleagues at Bosch.
I frankly think there's a lot that just,
you know, the TSP providers can do collaboratively
if the three organizations
between OnStar, Bosch, and SiriusXM Connect
can work together to help create alignment and standards
and consistency just on our own
by working together helps the entire ecosystem.
And we're really excited about that opportunity.
<v ->Yeah, and I'll just add on to that.</v>
I've been in this business over 40 years
with the last 30 or so in 911,
remembering when next generation 911
was supposed to come out in 2001.
And it's just, don't wanna sound like a broken record here,
but again, the momentum that's behind this now,
and not treating this like a Pandora's box
or a bunch of separate silos,
and to Jennifer's point, especially in others,
bringing the 911 community into this
as a primary stakeholder is crucial.
It's been kind of a paradox.
When you work in 911,
you're proud of being that quiet professional.
You don't want any notoriety,
you just do your job
and you just go through it and you do great things
and nah, leave me alone.
We're behind the scenes.
We like it that way.
But that's also led to sometimes, I think,
inadvertently not ignoring them but taking them for granted.
So with this opportunity with all of us together,
including our 911 friends and other stakeholders,
this is something to build on.
<v ->Just pile into all of that.</v>
What I've really enjoyed during this journey
is the collaborative attitude.
Even though we compete each with various members
from a commercial perspective,
we're setting that aside for the greater good.
That's amazing, right?
We'll find other ways to differentiate
and drive your businesses,
which is expected.
What I love though is we're finding a way
to collaborate across the ecosystem,
bringing in more and more people.
And we're just getting busy.
We're not waiting around for the perfect.
We're not sitting in the classroom.
We're not dreaming about tomorrow.
We're picking up shovels
and we're getting to work as quickly as we possibly can.
And I just ask that we just keep this going
and bringing in more and more people
so that we understand who else is involved,
who else could be part of making the world better,
addressing the numbers, Brian,
that you presented in the beginning.
Even though the roads are safer,
there's still 42,000 families that don't see it that way.
Right, so let's keep going.
<v ->Well, thank you all.</v>
What a great panel.
Thank you all for being here and listening
and we just hope to continue to work on this
and make improvements.
Thank you.