<v ->Welcome, everyone, and thanks for joining us today.</v>
My name is Ally Peck.
I'm the senior manager of environmental policy
and sustainability at the Consumer Technology Association.
Thanks for joining us at CES, the most powerful tech event.
Today we'll be discussing climate emissions,
carbon accounting, how companies are tackling the task
of reporting their emissions, complying with regulations,
all while setting ambitious reduction goals.
So thanks for joining us.
The way it's gonna work is I'm gonna give each panelist
about five minutes or so to introduce themselves
and explain what they bring to this topic.
I'll ask them a couple questions myself.
And then at the end,
I'll probably save five minutes or so
for an audience question or two.
So as we go through it,
keep thinking about maybe a question you have
to ask our panel.
So I'm gonna start off with Johanna.
We're gonna go down the line.
And then I'll kick it off with some questions.
<v ->Amazing. Hi, everybody.</v>
Thanks for being here. Thanks for the opportunity, Ally.
My name is Johanna Puetz.
I'm a managing director and partner
at the Boston Consulting Group, BCG.
And BCG is a management consulting firm
that advises companies on all kinds
of strategic questions, from technology to sustainability.
And I'm based in Berlin, Europe,
and I'm in the climate and sustainability service line.
So I've been in sustainability consulting since about 2008,
and 14 years of this with BCG.
And I've probably worked with 20 to 30 or more companies
on developing their climate strategies.
So any questions for the discussion today around
how companies approach climate strategies,
or also, of course, after the session,
I'm very happy and excited to address.
I do work mostly in the automotive and industrial space,
so I think that's a really interesting, maybe,
contrast and comparison here with some of the consumer work
that my colleagues on stage are doing.
<v ->Great.</v>
<v ->Excellent. Hi, everyone.</v>
My name is Erin Hiatt.
I am vice president of corporate social responsibility
with another trade association,
the Retail Industry Leaders Association.
So we are who our name suggests.
We are the trade association in the US
for retailers with largest operating footprint.
I actually have one quick slide from the deck
that I like to show, just to see who the logos are,
because sometimes that's a little more illustrative.
We'll get that up in a second.
But with my role, I oversee anything related
to corporate responsibility or ESG.
So these are our members.
I like doing this
instead of reading out a random smattering of them.
So with my role, anything corporate responsibility,
anything ESG, voluntary, or mandatory reporting related.
So what this looks like on a day-to-day basis
is that the CEOs of our member companies make up our board,
and they determine what pre-competitive areas
they would like our membership companies
to work together around.
So if it's an issue that's too big for any company
to tackle on their own,
that's kind of a association sweet spot.
So I have colleagues who focus on supply chain, HR issues,
asset protection, loss prevention,
but I get to handle the excellent portfolio
of corporate responsibility and ESG.
So beyond the sustainability piece, it includes DEI,
it includes responsible sourcing.
It's very kind of across different issue sets
and different operational issues.
But at the end of the day,
we run a number of different committees
that various executives participate in.
And we're helping them figure out,
where do they wanna benchmark?
Where do they wanna learn from experts?
And how do they wanna collaborate?
So Lowe's is one of our members.
<v ->Perfect. Thank you all for joining us today.</v>
My name's Campbell Weyland,
and I work at the home improvement retailer known as Lowe's.
For those of you all that do not know,
Lowe's is a US-based company.
We have approximately 1,747 different stores
across all 50 states.
We do about $86 billion in sales every year.
And we sell everything from a tomato plant
to a kitchen faucet to a refrigerator.
And so sustainability looks very differently
across the board.
At Lowe's, I am on the corporate sustainability team.
And I look at that tomato plant,
and I analyze how we can start
to make that tomato plant more carbon efficient.
So that's partnering with our suppliers
to use better recycled content in that material,
partner with them on how they actually grow
that tomato plant.
I also partner with our refrigeration team
to figure out how to sell a more efficient product.
And so what I bring to the table is I get
to work on all of those different products that we sell.
We sell about a million different SKUs.
So as you can imagine,
that is a really large amount of products
that we have to analyze all the time.
And so, yeah, looking forward to today's panel.
<v ->Great.</v>
Well, thank you guys all for introducing yourselves.
I'm gonna start off with Johanna, this first question,
just to, you know, blanket set on the topic itself.
So can you explain to us what the status
of global corporate climate action is right now,
how it's changed maybe
with maybe the recent current ESG backlash,
and where we see it maybe going?
<v ->Yeah, for sure.</v>
So I think it's a really interesting time right now.
I think it's fair to say that we've never seen
as much corporate climate action
as we are seeing today, or as we have seen in 2024.
So as of now, there's around 10,000 companies
that have signed up to the Science Based Targets Initiative,
which is one of the largest bodies internationally
that certifies corporate climate strategies.
climate targets that they have set
and that they're reporting and tracking against.
And also, on the regulatory side,
a lot has happened last year.
The California climate disclosure law has been passed.
I know there are still some legal challenges around it,
but we are positive that, in some sort,
it's going to be fully implemented.
Europe has gone its next step in carbon
and climate disclosure with the first year
of CSRD reporting.
That's our major reporting standard for ESG in Europe.
And also, like, just on the progress side,
we had 14% of carbon-neutral energy
in terms of primary energy consumption last year,
and that's the highest we've ever seen.
So there's a lot happening
and there's really meaningful progress across all fronts,
but at the same time, it's not uncriticized.
I think when we were coming out of COVID a few years ago,
there was this unwavering enthusiasm about everything ESG.
And I think we've come down a little bit from that pinnacle.
We had some corporate backtracking on their commitments.
I'm not going to name anybody here on stage,
but some of the really big names have actually rolled back
their climate commitments.
Some regulations are challenged in court,
or they get implemented later.
And last but not least,
We are way beyond 1.5 degrees
in pretty much all countries and all regions globally.
So this really, really underlines the point that,
while there's a lot happening,
there's still so much more potential opportunity
and also necessity to go the next step
and to scale climate action way wider
than it has been scaled to this point.
Maybe, like, one last sentence.
I said I've been in sustainability consulting since 2008.
I actually started to go into that space right
before Lehman Brothers and the global financial crisis,
which wasn't the best time for any strategy topic,
as you might imagine.
So right after 2008 and the financial crisis,
basically everything around sustainability stopped
or wasn't really progressed anymore.
And in Europe at least,
we are facing a sort of severe economic crisis
at this point.
So people ask me a lot, like,
"What's happening to sustainability?
Are we going to backtrack on everything?"
But honestly, this is not going to happen this time.
I think in terms of where we are
when it comes to global warning,
we are in a way more severe state than we were 15 years ago,
but also in terms of the regulation that has been set up.
But also all of the people and organizations
that are working on climate and sustainability topics.
It is so institutionalized now as a topic.
We have the CES Sustainability track
for the first time this year.
That I think we are going
to see more action rather than less,
even in a situation of relative backtracking.
<v ->Great, thank you. I agree.</v>
I think sustainability is more popular than ever,
and I think it'll continue to become more front and center,
even if there are challenges ahead.
Okay, so Campbell, I'm gonna go to you.
Similarly, can you talk about Lowe's carbon footprint
and your decarbonization strategy?
<v ->Yeah, absolutely.</v>
So I've been with Lowe's for seven years now.
And primarily, we were focused on how we operate
our big-box retail store.
So not very dissimilar from other retailers,
we had to figure out our own footprint.
We've done a pretty decent job.
We've cut our emissions in half
while also growing our business,
which is very, very impressive.
But we quickly realized
when we started setting a scope three target,
which that's inclusive of everything in the value chain,
that we were only doing a really good job
at 1% of our total impact,
and that 99% of our impact actually occurred
outside of the four walls of Lowe's.
And so when we started on this journey,
we identified some gaps in how it's measured
and how it's reported.
And so that's why we partnered with RILA,
to really focus on collaborating with other retailers
and really highlighting the fact
that this is a global issue.
Lowe's does not win if we achieve net zero
and all the other retailers don't.
It's a collective issue.
And hopefully everyone's achieving that same target.
So for Lowe's,
when you think about all the products that we sell,
80% of our impact comes actually from your home.
So in the US,
20% of emissions is associated with your home.
Lowe's is a big home improvement retailer,
so naturally, most of our impact comes from the energy
that's used in your home.
And so we identified that as a gap.
I was constantly tired
of my boss asking me why our numbers were so different
from our peers.
And what we ultimately decided was,
instead of using that Reddit or that YouTube post
of how long Bobby Joe uses that lawnmower,
it would be better to partner with other retailers
through an industry group to kind of collaborate
and come together.
<v Ally>Great.</v>
So Erin, I feel like Campbell kind
of teased this new technology or,
I don't even know, program that you guys are developing.
Do you wanna dive into that, the DPED version, too?
<v ->Yeah, absolutely. Thank you.</v>
So Campbell alluded to it greatly.
And I think the way
that Johanna explained kind of the landscape
that we think about,
working with our members around climate,
is very, very similar.
There's this element of, you know, the regulatory context.
You need to measure these elements.
There's actual management and reducing the reductions,
making progress on a lot of the targets.
And then there's a resiliency element to it as well.
You know, you're seeing these really huge climate events
that are impacting stores, impacting supply chains.
How do you build up resiliency
and be a bit more proactive in planning for that?
So it all sort of comes into place in a variety
of different business contexts for the organization.
And so where we end up doing kind of deeper dives
with some of our industry collaborative work
is really very much industry driven.
So, you know, that conversation that Campbell talked
about was truly one where he
and a couple of our other members came to us
and described this challenge.
You know, you could imagine,
if you're talking about your emissions footprint,
you have a similar product scope to other companies,
you know, you might have stakeholders asking,
"Well, why do these look a little bit different?"
And at the end of the day,
it's a fairly arbitrary difference in assumptions.
And so, you know,
when you look at standards like the Greenhouse Gas Protocol,
you know, there's only so much guidance you get
from a document like that.
At the end of the day, it's not telling you,
"Oh, here's where you get the data sources,"
or, "Here's how you get to, you know,
a certain use phase estimation."
And so what we looked into:
the creation of the DPED tool.
It stands for Direct-Use Product Emissions Database.
I'll actually go ahead and pull up the next slide
that just has a little bit of an overview around it.
So we launched version one of this resource
in spring of last year.
Go to that slide.
There's a QR code here,
if you'd like to learn more about it.
But essentially this is tackling exactly the type
of product footprint that Campbell talked
about being some of the most challenging.
So when we say direct-use product,
we mean something that plugs into the wall
or has a fuel that is directly powering it.
There is a direct use of energy element to this.
So as you can imagine, this is a lot of appliances,
electronics, small appliances, everything down to,
you know, a hairstyling tool.
It can cover a vast number of different retail products
that our members sell, because as you saw, you know,
we really represent everyone across,
you know, multi-line down through apparel.
And so the way that we wanted
to approach this was really to understand,
you know, what the core challenges are.
A lot of this is a data quality issue.
A lot of this is a consistency issue.
So if you're talking
about some of the regulatory considerations,
that consistency is critical.
If any stakeholders are gonna be comparing this information,
but there are, you know,
reasonably made differences in assumption,
we can't put a smart measurement device
on every single product that enters a consumer's home,
then how do we use a reasonable assumption
for how often Bobby Joe is, you know,
using his lawnmower or grill
or these other products that fall outside
of the scope of EPA ENERGY STAR?
So EPA ENERGY STAR has its own tool
for scope 3, category 11 that's really helpful,
but there are a large, large number of product categories
that fall outside of that.
So all of that to say,
the goal with this is to kind of keep it simple
and make it really easy for folks to adopt it.
The version one that came out, as I mentioned,
in spring of 2024 includes
over 180 different product categories.
A variety of different products that it's covering.
And for each of those it's looking at region,
fuel, energy type, emission factor, lifetime emissions,
essentially some of those core elements
that can vary the most from company to company.
And so our hope is that this gets used
as widely as possible.
You know, we can talk a little bit more about it later,
but this is a resource that's not specific to RILA members.
It's open to any individual reporter
that wants to use it for their own emissions.
It is open access.
And then if you represent a consultancy
or a software company that maybe supports companies
with their carbon emission footprints,
there is just an at-cost licensing fee to just be able
to access the database and integrate it into your own work.
So it is in the super flashy form of an Excel database
because we didn't want there to be, you know,
some proprietary system that folks needed to log into.
But the whole idea here
is it's not a perfect solution,
but you have to start somewhere,
and we wanna improve it over time.
So we'll have a version two coming out in the fall.
<v ->Great.</v>
I know, for electronics at least,
use of sold products, category 11,
is also our largest place, where we see nearly 80%
of our total industry emissions coming from.
So I think it's something that a variety
of different industries are hopefully going to be using,
and be able to holistically, together,
report their missions in the same kind of way.
So it definitely will be useful. (laughs)
Okay, my next question.
Johanna, what would you say is the business case
for carbon neutrality?
And do we think consumers are maybe willing
to pay more for more sustainable goods?
And feel free for others to jump in
and respond as we go through it.
<v ->Let me unpack this question a little bit.</v>
It's, of course, a super critical one, right?
No organization can be reasonably asked to do something
that goes against their business interests.
We would all not be in business if we did that,
and the same applies to climate strategies.
I would say, I mean, on the macro level,
the cost for action is actually, sorry,
the demand or the need for action is actually so clear.
Just a few weeks ago, we published a study together
with the World Economic Forum investigating
the cost of inaction.
So the negative consequences of climate change
and what they will mean for corporate bottom lines
that we can expect to see across different industries.
And, of course, it depends a lot by region,
by sector, and also, yeah, by sector and by geography.
But in many sectors
we already expect a 25% EBITDA risk until 2030
because of the physical consequences of climate change.
And this will be less pronounced in retail,
it'll be less pronounced in the US.
My figures are more for, like, southern countries.
But still, there's, like, a real cost of not acting now.
And I think that's a really important beacon to have there
as you devise a climate neutrality strategy.
On the more immediate and lower-term,
or, sorry, shorter-term business case,
there are also a couple of key things to consider
or things that play a role.
Very often, not always, but very often,
CO2 reduction does go together also with cost reduction.
So operational costs typically lower
or energy security can be higher
if you use renewable resources.
There is typically faster growth
and also higher sales in green products.
So there's a revenue upside to this.
In another study that we did last year,
25% of companies told us about a clear revenue uplift
from their climate strategies.
So there's a clear consideration to this as well.
To your second question,
are consumers necessarily willing to pay more
for green products?
I wish I could say a clear yes,
but I think it's not entirely that simple.
Consumers want green products.
About 80% tell us sustainability
is a key factor in their choice.
The number is actually higher even,
if we look at luxury products or also for automotive.
It's an even more important decision factor,
but that doesn't mean they're going to pay a dollar more,
$2 more, $10 more just because a product is green.
To really expand into green willingness to pay,
typically the green product attributes need to be linked
to other desirable attributes.
Design, health, performance.
Lower operating costs, eventually.
So it's not green as such
that we'll create that business case,
but linking it to other attributes,
which is possible in most cases,
unlocks this positive business side of green sales.
<v Ally>Great. Anyone else have something to say?</v>
<v ->Yeah, I think-</v>
<v ->Whoops.</v>
<v ->if I was to tell you to buy a heat pump, water heater,</v>
you know, just because it's good for the environment,
maybe some of you all would purchase.
It's significantly more expensive.
But if I was to tell you that 20%
of your energy bill every month
is associated with your water heater,
and you have a way to cut that in half,
that probably gets a lot more people interested.
So when you think about how you're approaching your home,
you're kind of treating it like a business.
And as you can explain more and more
of what that lower operating model is,
I think that allows customers
to feel more comfortable paying the higher premium.
For example, you know,
it's pretty cost comparative when you look at leaf blowers,
electric and gas.
But I like leaf blowing after I get home from work,
and I like not disturbing my neighbors.
And so for me, the ancillary benefit is no noise
or a limited amount of noise.
So I think as you can frame up all of these other benefits
and then say, "Also, it's better for the environment,"
I think you're gonna see more
and more consumers actually purchasing more green products.
<v ->Yeah, I think it's interesting how it sort of tells us,</v>
you know, it's an aspiration for consumers, right?
They're looking for an excuse to buy sustainable,
if they can justify it with, you know, the cost point,
if they can justify it over the other benefits.
It's great to have more than one good reason
for doing something.
And so it really does depend on the product category.
We did a recent presentation, too.
NYU and Circana do some really interesting research
about this, looking at receipts.
And so they do see a lot of difference
depending on the product category,
where there's some of that willingness
and the higher growth, the higher premium
that can be tolerated by a consumer.
But then when you have those other elements of it,
you know, you're not disturbing your neighbors,
you're not breathing in the fuel,
we were talking about how, you know,
didn't realize that gas can go bad in your tank.
That's gonna happen in a lawnmower.
So there are all these sort of maintenance
and ancillary considerations.
That there's, you know,
a consumer education element of this,
where if you can lead with some of those elements,
and yes, and you get to purchase on something
that aligns with your values,
and that's not always the case,
I think it's just a real opportunity for us
to understand a bit more about, you know,
what resonates with the consumer
and how to really frame a lot of this
so that it's kind of all of the above benefit.
<v ->Great.</v>
I think kind of what we're getting at,
I'm gonna tie it back together
to something we touched on a little bit earlier.
But a more sustainable product
is going to reduce our scope three emissions.
If you aren't really familiar, I would encourage you
to just quickly Google scope one, two, and three.
Scope three is the hardest for companies to control
because it's all downstream.
And so if a product is more sustainable,
it's using less energy,
and it is gonna reduce a company's overall category 11,
use of sold products, under scope three.
So Campbell, you kind of mentioned category 11 earlier.
Is there anything else you wanna touch on
when we're thinking about this topic, specifically?
<v ->Yeah, so scope three,</v>
to put it pretty cleanly,
so we sell dishwashers.
And so scope three includes everything
from the mining of that metal to the manufacturing,
to the warping of that dishwasher,
to it being shipped oversea on a Maersk ship,
to it even being used in the home.
So for us, use of sold products focused
in the customer's home, in their energy usage.
And if we can start
to lean into certifications like the EPA ENERGY STAR,
which shows that compared to the standard product,
it's 20% more efficient,
that helps us lower our overall footprint.
And so for us,
we're really leaning into third-party certifications
to understand, one, they have credibility
and there's some rigor around it,
but two, it's a certification that consumers can trust
and understand that it actually saves them money.
And so it's on the retailer
to actually tell that business case story
and kind of explain why you'd want to invest
in the more efficient technology.
But that's something
that we've been significantly focused on,
especially when we think about our scope three footprint,
is trying to simplify the message.
Because when you start talking about carbon emissions,
probably not a lot of people
that shop at Lowe's knows what that means
and their eyes will glaze over.
Although the nerd in me is very excited about it,
we gotta start to simplify our message.
So focus on saving money, saving the environment.
Saving energy is good for both your pocketbooks
and the environment.
<v Ally>Agreed. Definitely agreed. (laughs)</v>
<v ->I was gonna say, too,</v>
like, the one message to kind of hear,
underlying all of that,
is engagement with business partners
and within the supply chain as well.
So, you know, whether it's around the transportation,
but scope...
So scope 3, category 11 is the largest for, you know,
companies that sell a lot of energy-consuming devices.
For the rest of RILA's membership, it's category one.
And that's looking at really the manufacturing process,
what goes into the product itself.
And then, you know, kind of further down the list,
there are some things like transportation
and all of the other elements that go
into getting a product where it needs to be
and some of the other kind of lifecycle elements of this.
And so, you know,
one definite challenge to folks in the room,
if you represent a brand
that manufactures some of the products
that get sold in a retail company,
or direct-to-consumer elements of it,
I mean, there's just so much collaboration potential
because the need for the data across voluntary
and mandatory reporting contexts is there.
The consistency is so important for, you know,
some of the stakeholders that are using this,
and for the relationships, really,
that are gonna help influence decisions
that companies are making to lower their footprints
based on some of those indirect factors
that contribute to them.
<v ->Yeah, absolutely.</v>
Speaking to the upstream manufacturing,
before you can start to talk about product footprint,
you actually have to educate them
on what carbon footprint means.
And so last year,
we were named CDP Supplier Engagement Leader.
And personally, I'm very proud of that
because over last summer,
I actually did weekly webinars with our supply chain,
teaching them everything from
how to measure your carbon footprint
to how to actually lower it.
And now I have suppliers calling me, saying,
"Hey, Campbell, guess what?
We're doing our third solar installation thanks
to your renewable energy team."
And so I think the more you can collaborate
with your upstream value chain,
you're gonna see benefits in the downstream.
And obviously, you're trying to upskill everyone.
And obviously, their leadership team is very excited
about saving money in any way they can.
So I think if you can understand the message
for your upstream suppliers,
that's gonna help you ultimately in your downstream
when you get down to the consumer.
<v ->And we really see this across industries.</v>
So in every industry,
and it's typically the downstream companies
that are closest to the consumer that play this role,
you need somebody that kicks off decarbonization work
in the entire value chain.
So CSRD's standards for reporting comes together to,
well, standardize or at least develop consistent language
around emissions, like you did with your DPED tool,
educate suppliers.
Maybe also installing tools or technological solutions
that all of the players are using to calculate
in reporting their emissions.
I think what's really interesting, that it can,
I think it offers opportunity for the downstream companies,
as well as for the upstream companies to change
how you do business,
because you're adding another element
to a competitive situation that has been
in sort of a cost-benefit relationship
for the past decades, right?
All of a sudden, your suppliers can differentiate themselves
also through climate action,
potentially gaining a larger share of wallet
in that process.
So I think it's
an interesting competitive dimension as well.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
And I think you're changing a transaction relationship
to more of a relationship.
I think it's very important to form kind of like a team.
And so I think, through our work with supplier engagement,
we've created kind of this cohort of team members
within our supply chain that one,
feel empowered to start thinking about sustainability,
but two, start to say,
"Hey, when there's a jump ball situation,
and we have product A that's priced the same as product B,
but product B's manufacturer is really leaning
into this work, they're starting to reduce their footprint,
they're, you know, even just answering us and innovating,
I mean, that sets them apart.
And they view this as a differentiator."
<v ->Great.</v>
Okay, so we are at CES,
and this is the last topic I'm gonna have them all touch on
before we jump into maybe an audience question or two.
But we're at CES, the tech event.
So Johanna, how can technology help
in reducing our overall emissions?
And, you know,
how can that help companies be more successful?
<v ->Hmm.</v>
So I mean, all about CES seems
to be about artificial intelligence.
So let me quickly comment on that one.
It's, of course, a little bit of an upside
and downside topic, right?
I mean, a ChatGPT search takes about 10 times
as much energy as a Google search.
For hopefully a better result,
but I mean, right now,
also a very similar result at this point.
So in the US,
we actually expect data center capacity
to potentially double up until 2030,
just because of the rise of AI.
So that's a massive toll on energy systems,
on energy supply, and, of course,
on the CO2 emissions connected to that energy consumption.
I think it's important
that data center operators own that responsibility,
do the maximum they can in terms of energy efficiency,
do the maximum they can in terms of investing
in large-scale, CO2-neutral energy technology.
And we see this, right?
Amazon is going into nuclear.
Google is doing the same, just to sort of build that up.
Overall, I think artificial intelligence holds
massive potential, though,
to also address some of the issues
that we have around climate change head on.
I mean, the climate system is very, very complex.
And without machine learning, advanced analytics,
and so on, many of the questions that we can tackle now,
we would not have been able to tackle before.
So for example,
forecasting of extreme weather events, droughts, floods,
modeling the implications of this on cities.
Many cities now have such climate disaster plans in place,
and they were all done with varieties
of advanced analytics or AI-based software.
Or another example that I quite like is contrails,
the white thingies behind aircraft
that you can see in the sky.
They make up a third or so of aviation emissions.
And there is analytics software now that can,
through following certain flight patterns,
avoid these contrails to emerge,
and hence reducing emissions.
And without the analytics that needs to go in there,
we wouldn't have been able to do that.
So I think especially on the optimization, efficiency,
and modeling side, massive potential from AI,
and I really think we need it to bring emissions down.
<v Ally>Great.</v>
And then, Campbell, I think you mentioned something earlier,
too, about how you thought it could help Lowe's.
<v ->Yeah, absolutely. So how many of you all own a car?</v>
Do you all do regular maintenance on those cars?
No? Some?
Some probably do it
because they want that car to last as long as possible.
What Lowe's actually has started to leverage technology for
is to create a maintenance schedule for your appliances.
So within your appliance, your refrigerator,
if you're not cleaning out the vent at the bottom, the fan,
your appliance is not gonna last as long.
So what we're actually connecting
is your MyLowe's Rewards program to that appliance
that you bought and providing you a maintenance schedule,
similar to your car.
So that's where I think technology can really help lower
and also make those products last longer,
which I think is super important,
especially as almost the cost
of everything has gone significantly up.
And when you're investing tens of thousands
of dollars in your appliances,
you probably don't want that
to only last for a couple years.
So I think technology is gonna enable that.
It's also, on the flip side, gonna enable you to understand,
okay, when I'm getting that energy bill from,
you know, Pacific, you know, Natural Gas or whatever,
understanding where your weak spots are
is super, super important.
This summer I was paying close to $400 in energy costs,
which is crazy, per month.
Found out my HVAC unit was 25 years old.
So technology really helped me understand,
okay, if I switch a heat pump,
you know, a heat pump HVAC unit,
I can save this amount of money.
And so we made the switch.
And that was technology that was made by the manufacturer.
But as a retailer that sells many of these products
and many of these different brands,
having it in one location
rather than having your separate apps
for all these different things I think
is gonna be super important.
And that's where retail can really play a huge role.
<v ->Great. Okay, well, let's see.</v>
Does anybody have a question in the audience?
If so, come up to the microphones.
<v Adrian>Hi. My name is Adrian Valdez, with Honda.</v>
I had a question for you more specifically, Johanna,
about the automotive sector.
Obviously, 2024 we saw a lot of backtracking,
as you mentioned, of emission goals, carbon-neutral goals.
And so I guess my question to you is,
why did we see so much backtracking of these goals?
And maybe if you have any general advice for companies,
auto OEMs to avoid any future backtracking.
<v ->Yeah, sure.</v>
I think, especially in automotive, it's also important
to distinguish the different emission scopes
and which climate targets people backtracked on,
to our discussion earlier.
We saw a lot of sort of postponement
of electrification goals.
So that's scope three downstream,
the equivalent to your DPED tool
and what you discussed earlier.
And I think the main reason there was actually a lack
of consumer demand for these products.
And especially in Europe,
that's always the market that I'm best able to comment on,
the expectations on uptake of electrified mobility
that we had a few years ago were not met last year.
And that is why many companies postponed
or even abandoned their plans
for full electrification by 2030 or the early 2030 year.
In my personal opinion,
this particular development is also due
to a government policy failure.
Like, on the highest level,
very ambitious targets for electric mobility were set,
but they weren't followed through with the incentives
and subsidies that basically every technology needs
for a limited period of time
before it is sufficiently mature
to be the mainstream technology in a sector.
So I think that's mainly what has caused that.
On the scope one and two and scope three upstream side,
we actually haven't seen so much backtracking
also in the automotive space.
So comparatively, that's a bit more
under the control of individual OEMs
and sits in their production choices,
in their product design choices,
in their procurement choices.
And I think this is actually entirely voluntary.
It's not driven by regulation.
And many OEMs and also suppliers that I speak to have set up
now very successful supplier engagement modes,
to what you discussed earlier, Campbell,
that actually has enabled them to make progress a bit faster
in many areas than they expected.
So I haven't seen so much backtracking there.
There's another external factor there
that's general technological development.
So for example, hydrogen,
like, it's very far from a car,
but it's an important input factor, for example,
in the production of low-carbon steel.
And that's going to be a key driver
of decarbonizing the car in itself.
And also, there we saw some slower developments
than initially expected.
And that's what's driving some, yeah, lower progress
or smaller steps than maybe we'd like to see.
But what's there to learn there for your own strategies?
Not so much the case anymore now,
but when climate strategy started,
many people set targets and then stopped.
As in like, we have a target. We are good.
That shouldn't be the case.
The key thing after a target is the action
and the measures that you need to actually do,
including the business cases associated
to achieve that target.
And also the governance.
How do you change each one of your processes,
each one of your incentive systems,
each one of your business procedures
in order to take CO2 into account?
So I think that's really important.
So go sort of all the steps in a climate strategy,
not just the target-setting step.
Be realistic.
Work with scenarios,
especially where technology is immature,
which you will have in many areas.
And also, really openly communicate that you might have to,
I won't say backtrack now, but maybe sidestep
because an external development didn't realize
in the way that you thought it would.
I think in this way, I think there's, in general,
the opportunity for way more open discussion
about the challenges,
to have a sidestep not be seen as a misdemeanor,
but rather one thing that, you know,
is maybe a sidestep now,
but will ultimately get us further.
So I think we'd benefit from more of those, like,
honest, content-driven discussions.
<v Ally>Great. Anyone else have a question?</v>
Okay, we can take one more and then-
<v ->Sorry.</v>
<v ->No worries.</v>
<v ->Hello.</v>
My name's Mike Rockwell.
I'm a supply chain sustainability consultant with Anthesis.
So scope three supplier engagement is my every day.
And from where you sit,
what are the carrots and sticks
that are actually effective in not just measuring,
but actually reducing those supplier emissions?
<v ->Yeah, absolutely.</v>
So when I first started on the journey,
I sent a 10,000-word email talking
about how much Lowe's cared about the environment.
Really assumed that every supplier
of ours had a sustainability person.
And frankly, I got crickets.
So then it was really leveraging our procurement team
and their relationships.
I mean, we've been doing business with some
of the companies for the past 100 years,
and using those relationships to just open the door.
Really depends on how mature your supply chain is.
But I would venture to say many supply chains need
a point person or a champion of sustainability.
And so it's on you and your role
to actually educate them and equip them with the tools
to feel confident before you can get to the reduction phase.
This has been a three-year journey
for me within supplier engagement,
and I'm now starting to see investments in electrification
and solar and all of these different great programs.
But without the piece of why they're doing this,
it disincentivizes them to do it.
And so what we've also done is we've leveraged
from our learned experience,
so business cases, manufacturers,
people that we've worked with,
and actually brought them all together
to offer that to our supply chain.
I think the more that you can cut out the red tape
and all of the information gathering
and all of this kind of stuff that takes,
frankly, full teams,
you're gonna enable that supply chain
and that supply chain member
to make the decision on LEDs, right?
I mean, investing in the LEDs seems like a no-brainer,
but when you don't have an energy team that actually says,
"Hey, this is how much we're gonna start to save,"
it's really hard to make that decision.
So trying to lift as much of the decision making off of
that supplier and just saying,
"Hey, here's what we can expect,
here's how much it costs,
and here's what your return will be."
I think you'll start to see a lot more progress
within the space.
<v ->And I'll say, too,</v>
we're seeing a lot of companies step
into more of that, like,
broader supply chain education role
to bring others up to speed.
'Cause obviously, there are a ton of companies.
You know, sometimes your suppliers are more mature
than you are as a company and what they're doing.
The vast majority are not.
So I think some
of these engagement programs have been really exciting
to say, "We'll lend some of what we've learned to you.
We may even help organize a particular project that,
you know, helps you make an investment."
So there's been a lot of creativity.
And if there's anything that comes of all of this,
it's the opportunities for collaboration, I think.
<v ->Definitely. Well, great.</v>
Thank you. I think, unfortunately, we're out of time.
We will hang back for a couple minutes.
So if you guys wanna come up and meet us individually,
we're happy to answer some more of your questions
on a smaller scale.
But thank you guys for coming.
I'm wondering, can we get that second up maybe one more time
for the DPED, so people can, you know,
share it and get it on their phone,
if they wanna learn more information?
Great. Okay.
Well, thank you.