<v ->Good morning, everybody.</v>
For those of you that stayed on from the last session,
thank you,
and welcome to the new folks who have kind of walked in.
I'm really, really excited about the second session
where we will go into a little bit more detail
about something we launched last year
called The Global Industry Challenge.
And I'm thrilled to have a number of luminaries
who are gonna join me on stage
to kind of talk through what this is.
So without much further ado, my name is George Thomas,
I'm President and CEO of Connected DMV.
We are the organizers of the Quantum World Congress,
and we are thrilled to be here
to showcase the Quantum Means Business track at CES.
The Global Industry Challenge is something, as I said,
we launched late last year
at the Quantum World Congress,
and it is a platform that we are using
to drive industry use cases into the market.
So if you think about any technology-based innovation,
there's a set of communities that make that happen.
The people we tend to focus on
are what we call the builders,
the people who make the things that underline what we do
and use them for,
anything from televisions to cars to phones
that are the builder communities.
And then on the other side of it,
there's the users and the buyers, sometimes in one bucket,
sometimes two separate buckets.
And supporting these two, the builders
and the users and the buyers
are a number of other participants.
People who develop talent,
people who are responsible for policy,
people who are responsible for standards,
people who are responsible for commercialization.
So that's what makes up an ecosystem.
And when anything new comes along,
there's a number of companies, private companies
or government funded labs that are the builders
that are developing these tools and technologies.
And sometimes those tools and technologies,
after they're developed,
they go and find clients or markets for it.
And this creates kind of like a cycle of vacuum,
of a higher risk profile
for what things can have more of a chance of success.
So the Global Industry Challenge was intended
to allow the users and the buyers,
think of them as industry players
in some of these industries like space and life sciences
to kind of be at the forefront of defining
what is of value for their industry.
So if I am a CFO/CEO of an industry organization in biotech
or space, I don't care as much that the solution
is solved by quantum.
For me that is a tool.
I care that my mission is satisfied.
So by having them lead the discussion,
we really wanna kind of drive towards
what that community engagement means.
So the Global Industry Challenge
was essentially seeded from wanting to do
this kind of format to move forward.
So this is the framework of what that looks like.
So we'll have industry partners in these five categories
who are going to bring forward challenges,
which are basically problems that need to be solved
to the pot.
And these challenges can then,
people can apply globally to participate in it.
So there'll be a way
if you want to kind of be a participant
in any one of the challenges
that you can sign up as a participant.
So when the challenge registration opens,
and once that opens, you can have access
to what the challenges are,
and through our partners from qBraid and Aqora,
they then have access to backend computing systems
to actually showcase the finalists
who get through the process will have access
to backend computing systems
to be able to validate what they are.
And the winners who go through the process
for each of these industry challenges will be awarded
and presented at the next Quantum World Congress.
So structurally that is what we are trying to do,
and some of the impacts of what we want to drive
is the box on the very right.
We want to drive real world applications
that are use inspired by the industries that they represent.
We want to accelerate commercialization possibilities
of some of these solutions that come up.
Like some of the challenges,
depending on who the participants are
and who the finalists are, will end up being supported
by the industry partners
to develop whatever they've come up with further.
There might be options to commercialize.
There might be opportunities to join them in either,
you know, fellowships or actually as employees
to kind of move forward.
So that's kinda like the pattern that we expect
through the process.
We also want to use this mechanism,
this being, 2025 being the international year of Quantum,
which was, you know, designated this year
by the United Nations.
It's a fantastic opportunity for us
to increase awareness of Quantum in the market.
So a good portion of this mechanism
is to increase that awareness within the market,
and you'll see a set
of what we call organized participant cohorts.
There are some of them that are mentioned here.
These are higher universities,
higher education institutions,
some of them with significant quantum breadth and product
and talent that are self-organizing cohorts to participate
in addition to anybody worldwide who can join.
So the plan is to kind of have a depth
of existing quantum talent
that can help the industry use cases
move the needle forward.
So if I'm an industry person, I am able to take my problem
and have the world look at it.
If I'm a participant, I'm able to participate in things
that are real, that are needed by industry participants.
If I'm these education institutions,
it gives me another avenue
for education and talent development.
So that's kinda like the base structure at the bottom.
And then sitting at the top of it
is global impact nodes.
And you'll hear from a couple of our partners
within this as well,
but we are planning to deploy this globally
to launch this on World Quantum day.
So if I go back to the timeline for a second,
so we are here now announcing what this thing is.
Participants will start being able to register
by the end of this month and then the global impact nodes
will start to activate, will activate
on World Quantum Day, which is April 14th.
The challenge itself will be online
for the next 10 weeks for participants.
And then out of that there will be a process
to select finalists and make awards.
And the final list will be announced
at Quantum World Congress.
So the five impact nodes you see at the very end,
at the very top of it
are the five that are confirmed at this point in time.
There are a number of others,
you'll hear more about it in upcoming sessions.
So that's the structure
and the format of what we are trying to do.
So with that, I want to kind of, you know, invite
two folks up on stage.
The whole structure of this
is underneath the international year of Quantum.
And to hear more about this,
I would like to invite on stage Paul Cadden-Zimansky,
who is on the Executive Committee
of the International Year of Quantum
and Marsha Maxwell from APS.
Thank you both.
<v ->Thank you, everyone.</v>
Thank you, George.
So I'm a physics professor
and one of the global coordinators
for the international year.
I know that at CES, one of the exciting things is
what's being unveiled today,
what's being launched this week,
what's on tap for this year.
But I want for a moment to think on the 100 year timescale,
the century timescale,
the once in a lifetime timescale.
So this year, 2025 marks 100 years of quantum mechanics.
And for those of you who don't know,
quantum mechanics is humanity's best theory
for understanding the physical world, period.
It's the most well-tested, it's the most wide ranging,
it tells us the most things.
Now this is the consumer electronic show, right?
And the thing is that quantum is here.
It's always been here, but it's hidden.
It's right there in the name electronics.
Every single thing that you will see at the show
is based on manipulating electrons.
And if you wanna manipulate electrons,
you gotta talk to quantum mechanics first.
So this entire industry has a hidden hero,
and that's quantum mechanics, quantum science.
And though there are all these exciting new areas
of quantum innovation,
you heard about in the last session,
quantum computing or quantum sensing in the next session,
quantum is something that has been here for 100 years,
but it's hidden.
It's the hidden sponsor.
It's the one thing whose name is not in lights at this show.
So those of us who knew and understood
how important quantum science technology is and has been
and will continue to be to the world
thought that on the occasion of its 100th birthday,
we should throw a global birthday party.
So we got together, first some scientists,
then scientific organizations from all over the world.
Then we started approaching countries.
We went to UNESCO where we got support
from over 60 countries sponsoring a recommendation
that includes countries
like both Russia and Ukraine co-sponsored that bill.
Then we went to the United Nations,
and every single country in the entire world met,
and for the first time in the 78-year history
of the United Nations discussed quantum mechanics
and said this is gonna be the year.
This is going to be the international year
of quantum science technology.
The resolution to do that was unanimously agreed to.
It was sponsored by 72 countries, including the US, China,
India, representing over 5 billion people.
So what is the recommendation for the UN?
The top line recommendation is that this year
should be marked by activities at all levels,
helping raise awareness and understanding among the public
for the impact that quantum science and technology
has had, is having and will continue to have.
So what we're here to ask for is your help, right,
in making that a reality
because the United Nations also says
that all contributions should be voluntary.
So we have worked to put together networks of governments,
industry, academia, all this,
but we're still putting more and more together
with a lot of high level events all over the world,
but also events that happen just at the local level.
And so we're encouraging everybody
who understands the importance of quantum science technology
to help with this effort
and to mark the birthday of quantum mechanics
and make it go from a hidden hero
to a hero that everybody knows about.
So Marsha Maxwell is here from APS Corporate Relations.
She's gonna tell you some of the ways you can help.
<v ->Hi, folks, good morning.</v>
Marsha Maxwell, American Physical Society.
So our responsibility
apart from being one of the founding societies
around the initiative is to work with various organizations
across industry, academia, philanthropy and academia
around garnering sponsorship support
to support the initiative.
So they're able to roll out the global programs,
support the media awareness campaign
that will be going on throughout the year,
which is incredibly important to bring the conversation
as to what quantum mechanics can do
or quantum science can do for society.
So we have been very lucky to work
and gain the commitment from various folks from industry,
including Microsoft, Google, and many more.
And in the conversations that I've been having with them
before they committed, they just wanna understand like,
you know, apart from them giving their dollars
and of course being part of the initiative,
like what's in it for them, right?
So as a company, I know that several organizations
are looking for, have their various goals in being involved
with this initiative
and specifically around supporting quantum science
and technology.
So obviously big part of that is visibility.
Being a supporter or a partner of IYQ
enables you to have visibility and global visibility
in the quantum ecosystem.
And this is your brand and your company showing up
at these global events,
acknowledged at these global events,
being part of the Omnichannel awareness campaign
that's running throughout the year,
as well as being able to participate
and be part of those global activities as needed.
In my conversations with them,
a huge benefit of course is being in the room.
I think a lot of companies want to make sure
that it's all about access and getting connections
and many of you do have your peers
and other companies that you're partnered with
and connections.
But, you know, as Paul mentioned,
this is truly a global exercise
and a global and collaborative initiative.
So being in the room and having access to individuals
that are setting policy, funding and partnership,
I think, is gonna be incredibly important.
And this amplifies that access for you as a company
and as an organization.
Additionally, it's about having your voice
and your research and your perspective heard.
I mentioned the multichannel awareness campaign
that's running throughout the year.
You know, obviously we're going to be leaning into
our supporting partners to talk about
what you're currently researching, what you're doing,
your thought leadership throughout the year.
So, you know, we have a lot of huge, I mean it's,
hey we're doing this to better society.
I'm gonna put that out there
that ultimately this is going to make a difference
and going to improve our lives.
I'm gonna make a big statement,
but you know, we wanna make sure
that we have all the key players,
and we have your involvement and support
because it will not happen without that.
So how you can support, we have many ways
that you can get involved.
I'm happy to answer any questions
and many benefits that come with that involvement
all the way from sort of standard awareness and branding
all the way to a seat on the steering committee,
although those higher levels are sold, I will say that.
So we're very happy about the support
from those companies like Microsoft.
But we have other opportunities and other ways
that you can get involved and support.
And so we're looking for you to really be part
of this historic initiative and gain that access
and have that visibility and really support this effort.
So should you have any questions of myself and Paul,
we'll be hanging out after the session.
We're happy to answer any questions that you may have.
All right, Paul?
<v ->I'll just add that the big kickoff event</v>
is the opening ceremony in Paris at UNESCO headquarters
on the fourth and fifth.
I can say that stage time is already booked,
but there's still, seats in the audience may be available.
<v George>Thank you, guys.</v>
I'd like to invite up on the stage Nick and Philippe
to talk about the regional impact nodes.
<v ->Thanks, George.</v>
Good morning, everyone.
My name's Nick Werstiuk.
I'm the CEO of Quantum Valley Ideas Lab
based in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.
So Philippe and I are, if you saw on that chart,
we're here to represent sort of the international segment
of this conversation around how this activity can roll out.
Let me start with kind of the,
I'm gonna sort of tag team this,
so I'll cover kind of the, some of the background
of how we all got involved,
and then we'll describe kind of our regional organizations.
And then Philippe will talk a bit about the connection
to the Global Industry Challenge.
So, you know, we as a community,
were brought together actually by George
about a year and a bit ago
to try and build relationships
between some of the large developed quantum hubs
around the world.
So my hub, and the goal there is to sort of build
sort of grassroots interaction
between the research communities,
the commercialization communities, the end users,
and try and advance the activities of quantum, you know,
across the globe because the recognition is that the,
you know, global collaboration
amongst like-minded nations will be critical to the success
of the development of the quantum industry as a whole.
So we started down this path,
and, you know, my community
is the Quantum Valley in Waterloo, Canada as I said,
and our community
is probably one of the more established communities
in terms of quantum.
We were founded almost 25 years ago,
and our community is kind of a grouping of organizations
centered around the University of Waterloo.
But we have the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics,
the Institute for Quantum Computing at the university,
Transformative Quantum Program, and my organization,
Quantum Valley Ideas Lab,
which is an industrial research lab focused on, you know,
early stage quantum development
and then commercializing the technologies that we develop.
The community also includes a pool of 25 to 30 startups
and companies that have been created out of that base of,
you know, dozens and dozens of research groups,
a couple hundred graduate students in quantum
at the university and so on.
Basically an extensive community of activity.
Which makes sense, right, when you look at
trying to bring together the commercial,
the linkage of research to the commercial opportunities,
this kind of program,
like the industry challenge really becomes critical
for those people to get exposed to the problems
but also then try and help solve the problems.
So that's kind of my regional organization.
I'm gonna ask Philippe now, he can talk a bit about
kind of the European perspective.
<v ->Thanks, Nick.</v>
I'm Philippe Bouyer.
I'm the chair of Quantum Delta NL,
Quantum Delta NL, it's a non-profit organization
with one mission and a few goals.
The mission is to coordinate the quantum initiatives,
the national Quantum initiatives,
the support of the Dutch government to quantum development.
One of the major goal we have is to use this support
to build a quantum economy
and to build our ecosystem, our Dutch ecosystem
to play a significant role in this quantum economy.
That requires to support innovation,
innovation that will last for decades, of course.
That doesn't mean that there is no application today,
but we need to sustain the development of new ideas.
We need to sustain the transfer of these new ideas
from universities where the knowledge is to the companies.
For that we are actually also pushing programs
to help startups to be created, to help startups to grow,
to help startup to get investment.
Of course, the Netherlands, it's a small country.
We cannot do everything.
We cannot do everything alone,
and we also thrive a big development
for international cooperation.
We've been, we are one of the,
sorry, collaborator of UNESCO
for the International Year of Quantum.
We have been also pushing very hard for an initiative
which is called 30 Nation
and Canada is also part of it
where we speak about what is needed
for all our like minding country to work together
and to get quantum technology
to a point where we can actually have real products
on the market.
But these products are here today.
That means that we not only need to push
the development of the technology,
but we also need to push actually the application of it.
And this is where the Global Industry Challenge
plays a significant role.
I mean we need to engage ASAP with the end users.
We need to engage ASAP with the consumers
to look at what they need
and to look at how quantum
can actually respond to these needs.
And this is why we are very supportive
of this Quantum Industry Challenge.
First, because we think it is today that we,
and you heard it in the panel before,
it is today that we need to work on quantum software,
but not only on quantum software, on the quantum internet,
quantum communication, quantum sensing as well.
But we need to do it in a global way.
I mean, we need to look at the, like the market,
which is a worldwide market.
Well, I have a question.
So how many people are not from the US in this audience?
Maybe you can raise your hands.
I hope I can see that because I have the light in the face,
but well, that means something.
I mean it's not only a market for Europe,
it's not only a market for the US.
It's a global market,
and it's also a global development market.
So we are very supportive of the Quantum Industry Challenge.
And please we think the success of such an initiative
welcome if you all actually apply to it,
if you'll use this opportunity.
So please, yes, use this opportunity
to register to the Quantum Industry Challenge,
and I hope that we can actually together
get great applications and great concepts
out of this initiative.
<v ->Thank you, Philippe and Nick.</v>
As you can see from the map, we have kind of five confirmed
besides the four Accord members,
Cleveland, Ohio in the United States
is also a confirmed impact node,
and there's lots of interest
from some of the light green flags, pins
that you see on the map.
If there's interest in other countries,
thank you, Philippe for asking that question,
who are in the room or otherwise who are interested
to participate, please let us know.
So with that, let me move on
to the last major segment of this,
which is I would like to invite Kanav Setia up,
who is the CEO and Co-founder of qBraid
who is the platform that's gonna allow us
to kind of execute for this.
So Kanav's gonna spend five to seven minutes
just kind of going through what qBraid does.
<v ->Good morning, CES.</v>
How's everybody doing?
Nice, nice, nice.
So I'm gonna start with a question.
How many people here heard the Google Willow announcement
two weeks ago.
All right, lots of light.
Good amount, good amount.
So couple that with the excitement you heard today
that it's like just so much that has happened
first over the past hundred years
and also like over the past five years itself,
tremendous progress.
You heard about so many different business applications.
Hearing all of that, how many people here
want to do something in Quantum?
Wanna share the excitement by show of hands.
All right, good, good number.
Okay, just one last question, I promise.
How many people here already have something going on
in their company or organization with respect to Quantum?
Oh wow, good percentage,
but that percentage is still just looking around sizing it,
it's less than 10%.
And that's the part that we wanted to change
with Global Industry Challenge.
The idea is how do we engage with more people?
So many people hear big announcements,
big industry problems getting addressed
using quantum computing,
and everybody's thinking, okay, like, okay,
I mean, you can have calculations
that would take 10 raised to the power of 25 years
done in five minutes.
But what does that mean for me, right?
And that's the part
where we came up with this Global Industry Challenge.
What we wanted to do was
without selling anything to anybody, bring you in,
understand the problems you care about.
You bring us the problem that you care about
in your industry, the problem,
the most complex and challenging problems
that you face in your workflow, bring it to us,
and then we'll work with you to design a challenge
for the students and hackers around the world
from the most amazing places like MIT, UC Berkeley.
And you heard lot of places all over the world
like Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard, U Maryland,
and all those amazing places,
people from all of these amazing places
come together to build a solution
and address the challenges that you brought in.
So where does qBrain come in?
So qBrain is a one-stop platform
where we provide the easiest and most streamlined access
to quantum software and quantum hardware,
so that we will work with you
to design those challenge problems
and release it on our platform.
I like to say what we do is we take you
from not knowing much about Quantum
to running your first quantum program
on a real quantum computer in under five minutes.
So you probably saw all the logos listed.
So we work with all the major companies
including IBM, AWS, Microsoft, Qora, IREQ,
and we have all of their quantum computers available
at a click of a button.
So these challenges will be released on our platform.
All the hackers have easiest access to quantum software,
quantum hardware.
They build a solution for 10 weeks,
and once they get done,
we assess them in partnership with you.
We give out prizes at the Quantum World Congress,
and ultimately the goal is to make that solution
easily accessible to all of you.
So you should just be able to,
or your developers at your organization,
you should just be able to log into our platform
and play with the solution and build on it, right?
And that's the goal, and that's the theme.
And unless anybody has any questions,
I think that's my part.
<v Audience Member>I have a question.</v>
<v Kanav>Okay, go for it.</v>
<v Audience Member>Do you do actual coding on the platform?</v>
<v Kanav>Yeah, absolutely.</v>
So we give you a Jupyter lab-based platform
with a bunch of extensions that we built that shows devices
and that allow you to manage your quantum jobs
and also give you access to GPUs.
So I think like somebody mentioned earlier,
it's gonna be a orchestration
of all of these compute modalities
that are gonna work in unison
to address all of your problems.
So on a single platform,
not only you get access to quantum computers,
but people will also have access to GPUs
and scalable CPUs.
<v ->Thank you, Kanav.</v>
Another round of applause please.
So I'm gonna go back to this for a quick sec.
So as you've kind of heard
from some of the component pieces of this,
this is something we are really, really excited about
to help move the needle from an industry perspective.
I think the biggest kind of advantage
to running a program like this
is to get the end user buyers really engaged with a program
that many of them, many of you
may not be completely too sure how to get engaged with
to get started.
So we are looking at this as a mechanism
to lower that barrier to getting into the game
if you are a user or a buyer and have a problem
that you think you might wanna test against it.
And it also allows at the other end
a significant portion of the builder community
to engage much easier with you
without having to create a lot of work
for you to kind of engage one-on-one with them.
So that's really kinda like the hope, you know,
that we wanna kind of do with it.
So ways to get engaged,
if you go to the QR code,
there is a website that has a lot more information
about what we kind of discussed here today.
There's multiple kind of levels
of where you can get engaged.
Please just go register and kind of, you know, let us know
and get in touch with us with what it is.
And those levels include participant groups within yours
at your higher ed universities around the world
if you want to create cohorts within them.
Individual participants of smaller companies and startups
within your countries, regions
who might wanna participate.
If you are an industry player,
if you want to put a challenge in, don't know where to start
or if you are already working on it
but wanna participate in it,
there's a mechanism to kind of do that as well.
And then of course regional hosts,
we think we'll have about seven to 10 regional hosts
on April 14th.
That will happen all in parallel starting with, you know,
in Australia all the way to the west coast.
We want you to be, and that's part of the celebration
that we want to do, you know,
with Paul and Marsha, with IYQ to kind of raise awareness.
So the mission is industry use cases,
getting the builders involved,
create excitement around talent
for people to kick tires around what quantum is
and to have universities in academia start to collaborate
on what this process is.
So that's really at a very high level what the plan is
for the Global Industry Challenge.
So I think we have a little bit of time, so, you know,
we can open it up for some questions.
If there are any questions we can take a couple I think.
And again as Philippe said, we can't,
I can't see anything, it's just blinding light, so.
I think I see your hand there, yeah.
<v ->[Audience Members] What are some of the applications</v>
you've seen already and inspire us with, you know,
some of these applications as innovators?
<v ->Yeah, sure.</v>
I'll pick on one for no particular reason.
So our partner on the life sciences innovation,
sorry, the industry challenge is Cleveland Clinic
and Cleveland Clinic for the last I know 10-ish years
has been very deeply engaged in quantum.
They, you know, outside of quantum in their research
they have about 1600 researchers looking for the next thing.
From a mission perspective,
they're trying to solve disease problems,
and you know, pharma problems
and delivery of devices problems for healthcare.
Quantum is just one tool in their kit bag,
but they're one of the, I think the first life sciences firm
to actually acquire a physical quantum computer
and put it on site.
They acquired a IBM System One,
I think they're gonna create an IBM System Two.
So that organization has been working quite a bit
at use cases within it.
So within that, one of the areas
they are thinking of putting in is around neurotech
and brain functions
that can be possibly solved using quantum functions, please.
<v ->I'm thinking more of the hacker type community,</v>
the people that can do that kinda stuff.
For that, we're not just gonna think of that in our basement
and come up with that solution.
I'm thinking more of a blender community
that's gonna do computational fluid dynamics
and have water flow and more applications
that are more practical than solving cancer right now
'cause we're not gonna wake up and say, oh my goodness,
let's solve that cancer problem.
<v ->No, you're absolutely right, and there's a big difference</v>
between solving something that can, you know,
move data from A to B
or some part of crypto to solving cancer.
Like that's a pretty large gradient.
And these organizations have been working quite a bit
at figuring out these parts of that
that could help you solve cancer.
So it's not going all the way at the end
with a challenge like this.
You're absolutely right.
There's not enough time to kind of go do that,
but what we want to do is use this mechanism
to involve a much larger community
to look at these parts of this
that they might wanna go and solve for.
<v ->Yes, go ahead, here.</v>
<v ->I just wanna quickly add to what George already mentioned.</v>
So there's a lot of really cool applications
around quantum machine learning as well.
So it's nowhere close to
where traditional machine learning is,
but there are really cool examples
where you see the potential.
There have been a few papers where what you can show
is that quantum neural nets train much faster
with much lower parameters.
And overall, if you look at the energy burned by
or the energy required by quantum computers
with respect to classical computers, it's much lower.
So it's a very small model where AlexNet was,
I believe in 2012 or maybe even preliminary to that,
but it's like one really cool example that shows that,
hey, there might be something incredibly cool here.
So those are problems which are easily accessible
by all the hackers
because it's the data that you're gonna understand
and neural networks, it's again
like different way of encoding,
but this is something you can just sit down for two days
and make sense of it.
And even on the solving cancer part,
again, if you just say solving cancer,
that's incredibly hard.
But then if you zone in on a particular piece,
then that becomes tractable,
and that's where you will have support from all of us
where we will come in and understand,
okay, no, no, narrow this down.
We're gonna zone in onto something
and make it into a mathematical problem.
And as soon as you do that, it becomes easily tractable
by hackers around the world.
<v ->[Audience Members] I have a question.</v>
Nowadays the blockchain technology
has become really hot,
and many people host like blockchain exchange,
I mean BTC, Bitcoin as wealth, and so quantum economy,
quantum technology, how in what level it will impact
or interrupt the blockchain technology in future?
Could you share a little bit about that?
<v ->Oh, I'm not qualified to answer that question.</v>
Yeah, I mean if you look at blockchain
just from the compute perspective side of it,
that it takes a lot of energy, this thing,
and it's just a shared ledger,
you can think of a lot of ways just classic that would,
I would just put it in the bucket of classical computing.
So that question, if you just convert that
to a classical computer question,
there are lots of ways to kind of think about it
from a blockchain perspective.
The other side we haven't quite mentioned
is energy usage, right?
Energy usage for classical computing
and high performance computing has a certain kind of demand
that we have all seen with AI data centers now, you know,
companies looking at building their own nuclear facilities
to power their own data.
There's a whole kind of conversation going on
within the quantum and adjacent committee
about what would it mean to run a quantum commuter.
Is it less energy intensive, more energy intensive?
Is it usable now to use quantum
to help solve for energy needs?
So maybe not in the next 15 years,
but after 15 years we'd have something
that quantum can help optimize energy usage in data centers,
which again, use technologies like blockchain.
that are more intensive.
I would put AI in the same bucket,
but I'm generalizing both of those
under just classical computing needs
versus blockchain specifically,
which I'm not qualified to talk to, if that helps.
Okay, I think we can take one more question please.
<v Audience Member>Would you say that the main reason</v>
that quantum computers maybe aren't scaling
as fast in mainstream would be
because people aren't aware of
that they can use quantum computing?
<v ->That's a tricky question.</v>
I would kind of push back on the premise
that they're not scaling as fast.
I think if you think about where quantum was, right?
Like Schrödinger and Bohr and Einstein
in about the 1900s came up with a theory.
<v Audience Member>I mean from a public perspective,</v>
awareness? (audio blurs)
<v ->So, but even if the public is aware,</v>
let's say all 100,000 people at CES were aware of quantum,
what would they do about it, right?
It's the engagement models that are more difficult
than just the awareness part of it, right?
So you need to have enough PhDs generated
around many, many topics that's not just quantum,
it's IT, it's, you know, there's a whole bunch of sleuth.
You need to have business translation capability.
Just because I can go to Cleveland Clinic
does not mean they know how to translate that
to a quantum question.
So we have lots of challenges in talent development
and pipeline, how that gets applied.
We have engineering issues that people are trying to solve
around deploying full scale quantum computers.
The science is there, the engineering always takes time.
We have dependencies
that are completely outside the quantum world
from a standards perspective,
from a policy perspective that have come into play.
And those things take time.
And I said in the morning session,
they're not linear, right?
They're cyclical,
and you know, not saying
that somebody somewhere won't have a killer app
that kind of drives everything.
But without that, like AI is a great example, right?
Chat GPT apparently happened, what, overnight?
But AI has been in play, the same technologies
for 60, 70 years now before Chat GPT came around,
and there's a significant amount of generations of work
that built all the building blocks that made that happen.
<v ->Yeah, I can add one point to your question.</v>
It's yes, the penetration of quantum technology
into the society is not quite significant there.
That doesn't mean that it's hindering the development
of quantum computer.
And actually if you look at what happened
over the past two years, that's actually pretty amazing.
I think if we would have a meeting here two years ago,
we would say quantum computer may be error correction,
we're not quite sure.
And all of a sudden there were like tremendous announcement
made by Google, made by University of Harvard
about like actual corrections.
And it's now implemented
in most of quantum computing platform.
Same thing with connecting two quantum computer,
two quantum computer cores
or two quantum computer chips together,
one of the challenge of quantum internet.
If we would have like spoken about it last year,
I say, well, we are really working hard on it,
but this is a very hard problem
and look at the announcements that were done with Google
and others.
I mean this is something which is happening today.
So this is not the same scaling we're speaking about.
This is not about having from 10
to like 100 cubits to 1,000 cubits to a million cubits.
This is really about getting the solutions
to the real problem that we have.
But we still need to reach out with the society.
We still need to reach out with the consumers.
This event is one of them.
This is also our role as organizations.
I mean we, for example, at Quantum Delta
have launched and created
the Center for Quantum and Society,
which is really outreaching to the rest of the society
to say Quantum is here.
You don't need to understand quantum in order to use it.
The same way you don't need to understand electronics
to use your iPhone,
you just need to press on the button.
And this is what we have to do.
And I think this is what the Quantum Industry Challenge
and an initiative like this will do,
and this is why we need to do it ASAP.
<v Audience Member>Thank you so much.</v>
<v ->Just one follow up from my perspective.</v>
So the worst, the word quantum
is getting used in this context to mean particularly
what I call quantum information technologies,
which are these new things like quantum computation,
quantum sensing, right?
And that is one part of the quantum landscape, right?
So we started exploring this quantum landscape
that are coming to fruition now,
people didn't realize until like 50 years ago.
So we're doing things on decadal timescales,
but I see these things saying,
oh, like is quantum technology coming?
Quantum technology has always been here
for the past decades and decades, right?
So every single LED light that you see, right,
we couldn't have created without quantum understanding.
It's a kind of a silly technology at this point,
but everybody's got a light on their phone, right?
A bright light on their phone.
And if you touch that light, it's not hot.
If you talk to people 100 years ago,
how do you make a light that bright that's not hot?
They'll just say it's impossible, right?
It's only because we have quantum understanding
that we can do that technology.
So what we need to do in this year
is talk about the present and future,
but also talk about all the things that surround them
in their electronics that are quantum related.
Everybody understands DNA, right?
Doesn't mean everybody's a microbiologist, right?
But if you go out in the strip and ask people like
what is quantum?
They'll give you blank looks, right?
Something from a Marvel movie, something like that.
We need people to understand that Quantum has been here,
is here, has been generating all this technologies,
is underlying everything at CES
and will continue to generate all sorts of new technologies.
That's the goal of the year.
<v ->Thank you, and we'll leave that as the last word.</v>
Please join the global community
in participating in the Global Industrial Challenge.
Thank you.