<v ->All right.</v>
Thank you everyone for joining us
for our panel here Future of Health Workforce.
We're very excited to get started.
I'll introduce myself first as a moderator.
My name is Dr. Adam Goodcoff,
I'm a board certified emergency medicine physician
and also the co-founder and CEO of MedFluencers,
which is an HCP influencer marketing communications firm.
So I'm very excited to introduce our panelists here today.
They're all incredibly accomplished in their own right.
And in fact, I will actually let them speak for themselves.
Not only introducing,
but a little bit about themselves.
Mary, I'll have you kick it off.
<v ->Wonderful, thank you.</v>
Good afternoon.
My name is Mary Del Guidice.
I am the vice president and chief nursing officer
at Tipton Health Communications,
which is the country's largest nurse consultancy.
We support nurses across really globally,
US, Europe, over 300 hospitals
to truly optimize nursing practice,
elevate work environments,
and improve outcomes in every measurable way.
I've been with Tipton Health for five years,
but previous to that, I've been a nurse for 42 years.
Don't do the math on that.
And spent really the last 30 years as a nurse leader,
chief nursing officer of many wonderful organizations.
<v ->Hello everyone, my name is Colby Takeda,</v>
co-founder and CEO of Pear Suites.
We are a early stage startup.
We launched in 2021 and focused completely on
empowering community health workers
and other community-based providers
like doulas, promotores, and other frontline workers.
My background is actually,
I started in senior care and public health.
I was an administrator of a senior living facility at 24
and learned all about operations
and taking care of older adults.
And then I worked for Sharecare on the Blue Zones Project
to focus on food, housing, transportation,
and helping a team of about 15 policy and partnership leads
helped to make communities healthier and happier.
And so during the pandemic
when community health workers really stepped up,
that's when we decided to build
to support community health workers.
Many of them aren't on technology,
they're on paper and spreadsheets,
so helping them transition to the healthcare needs
of payers and providers
allowed them to now contract and support community health
through these payers and provider contracts.
So that's what we do and excited to share more.
<v ->Good afternoon, my name is Joe Ganley,</v>
I'm the vice president of Government and Regulatory Affairs
at Athenahealth,
which is a health IT provider
primarily in the ambulatory market.
So doctor's offices are really our sweet spot.
We are a company that's passionate about
how technology can disrupt and make improvements
in the way care is delivered
and reduce, most importantly, clinician burden,
which we'll probably talk a lot about here today.
I've been at Athena for five years.
And prior to that, I was at McKesson for 10 years,
working also on health IT public policy issues
in Washington.
And I was really pleased
to be part of the effort in Washington
that deregulated a lot of health IT,
the 21st Century Cures Act which was passed back in 2015,
which was a major deregulatory law that actually
I think opened up a lot of innovation in technology.
So we'll probably talk a little bit about that
today as well.
So thanks for being here.
<v ->Hi, good afternoon, I'm Dennis Truong,</v>
I'm emergency physician at Kaiser Permanente.
I'm part of the Permanente Medical Group,
so it's the physician side of the Kaiser Permanente name.
We have 12.5 million members that we're accountable for
across eight markets, about 400 hospitals,
about 220,000 employees.
Of those 220,000 is 25,000 of them are physicians.
As the physician arm, as a physician leader,
I run the digital mobility and virtual care
for Mid-Atlantic.
Also we combine and collaborate with all the other regions,
and we have some of our other regional leaders here
in the audience too.
What's great about being a physician at Kaiser
and a leader at Kaiser is that
you get to not only be involved in the technical aspect,
but you're involved in the clinical
and the operational aspects.
So you get to combine all three.
So it's not as fragmented when making decisions
and you still you're able to keep the patient
at center all you do.
So it makes it much easier to do those things.
So I'm very excited about this conversation
because it really combines a lot of the work that we do.
And I look forward to learning from all you guys.
<v ->Well, thank you very much to all of you.</v>
You can see that there's a wide depth of experiences
for our panel today.
I think it's no secret that
we have some significant challenges in healthcare as a whole
and the healthcare workforce as a whole.
Some might say big systemic challenges.
What are some of the things
that keep each of you up at night?
And I'll keep it broad to start, Mary, we'll go to you.
<v ->Wonderful.</v>
Well, what comes to mind in our practicing consulting
and organizations across the world
is this worry and challenge
to unleash the healthcare, entire healthcare team,
from the enormous amount of administrative burdens,
unmanageable workloads, and inefficient workflows
that keep nurses and physicians away from the bedside.
We know that nurses spend 54% of their time,
not in direct care.
50% of nurses are not practicing at the top of their license
due to these burdens and barriers.
And when I think of technology,
up to 40% of their time is spent in documentation.
And 15% of their time is spent in tasks that can be done
by other healthcare team members.
So that big picture of getting nurses and physicians
to that place of joy and meaning with their patients
is what's always on front of mind from a global perspective.
<v ->Yeah, it's interesting.</v>
Like one of the workers could be a community health worker,
right, to support a nurse.
So for me, you know,
we're really passionate about community health workers.
And unlike other clinicians
and other credentialed licensed professionals,
community health workers aren't credentialed in the way that
nurses or doctors or physical therapists are.
Every state right now has their own policies
around what a credentialed community health worker is,
which is really a part of the challenge.
You can't start to work with the healthcare system
unless there's some way to verify that this person
has the right training and background experience.
But that's also the benefit of
what community health workers bring to the table.
That lived experience is so valuable.
You know, being someone who maybe had experienced
homelessness or was on food stamps
or was part of the justice system
is what makes them so relevant
when you're helping to address
the social determinants of health needs.
And of course,
this also opens the opportunity to think about
how do we address these social needs at scale?
And so that keeps me up at night
that social determinants of health are so important,
and CHWs could be that solution,
But yet helping them work with providers and payers
and HIEs and government agencies
and all these different stakeholders is pretty challenging.
It took many, many years and decades
for other provider types to get
that credentialing and that respect and that compensation.
So how do we achieve all of that all at once?
That's what we're on the mission to try to do at Pear Suite
and that's definitely a challenge that's worth tackling.
<v ->Yeah, you know, I'll add,</v>
I think that we've been talking about the economic pressure
on primary care in this country,
the administrative burden on primary care clinicians.
And in my world,
the regulatory burden on those folks for a long time.
And now those chickens are coming home to roost, right?
Because we're probably
a hundred thousand primary care doctors short
in this country right now.
And that is a massive what keeps me up at night.
I don't know that people are gonna be able to,
my kids and my kids' kids
are gonna be able to go to the doctor
the way people have traditionally gone to the doctor.
Because if there's not enough
primary care doctors in the community
and other clinicians in the community,
our whole primary care model could fall apart.
And I don't think that's an exaggeration
to suggest that we're sort of on that trend.
I was with a friend of mine who's a doctor the other day,
he is actually retired,
and he said, you know,
the last thing I would tell somebody
in medical school to do is to go be a primary care doc.
He said, I get asked all the time.
What should I specialize in?
What should I think about in terms of the arc of my career?
And he said, I tell them, do not be a primary care doc.
It's brutal.
Go be a proceduralist.
Work at a big hospital where you collect your paycheck
and you go home on Friday at five, right?
Do not have your own independent practice,
even if that's what you're passionate about,
because it's just not sustainable.
So that workforce challenge
I think is what really keeps me up at night.
<v ->I don't wanna say access keeps me up at night,</v>
but after hearing you I'm kind of,
as an emergency physician
with not enough primary care physicians,
we take the brunt of a lot of the access issues.
<v Joe>That's in the hallway.</v>
<v ->Right, exactly.</v>
So I trained in Detroit and it's interesting
'cause when you,
I remember coming to work and seeing a patient laying there
and he brought a sleeping bag.
And he was there ready to sleep overnight
until he was seen.
So I went, started my shift, worked 12 hours and left.
And he was still there in the sleeping bag.
So I asked him like, what are you here for?
I'm just here for a sore throat.
You waited 12 hours for a sore throat.
So even back then,
as an emergency physician watching the physician shortage,
not just primary care but in general,
shortage across the board,
that's always been the thing that kept me up at night
is access.
How do we get better access?
Then now it's interesting because
we have all these digital tools out here, right?
We have some great speakers up here from great organizations
and we go, well, access is still a problem
because how do we right fit access now?
Not just provide care, but make sure it's coordinated.
Make sure it is responsible, right?
So some of the things that we've talked about before,
I remember being on a panel like this about four years ago,
talk about digital divide.
Now it become digital dependency.
How do we,
it's becoming no matter whether you like it or not,
we are very dependent on digital.
So how do we do it responsibly
and still provide great access, great quality
at the lowest possible cost so that we're not, you know,
we're not gonna resolve our issues
by just throwing cash at it in the future?
<v ->Dennis, I think it's really interesting,</v>
especially knowing the Kaiser system, it's very integrated.
There are a lot of ways
in which the patients are plugged in for multiple aspects
even from an emergency department visit,
where typically, you know,
you're describing kind of an inner city experience,
there's, you know, horrible wait times,
but you all have the ability to,
you know, book appointments,
ensure that there's continuity of care.
From your lens,
what are some of the tech innovations or things
that you are excited about
that are making that continuity and access easier or better?
<v ->Yeah, we're very lucky at Kaiser Permanente,</v>
'cause even as an emergency physician,
we've been able to always prepare for the future.
So you're thinking about
a decade ago we started doing telehealth
and we started using the patient portal
as a leverage tool to educate patients,
make sure they can do self-scheduling.
A lot of things that we do ourselves now
when we book an Uber or we go buy pizza on your apps,
think that patients are looking for self-service,
no one wants to call and talk to someone
unless they really need to.
That's just kind of the trend that we were seeing.
So we were able to actually cross train our physicians
and shift them to go,
well, we have a bunch of emergency physicians
that also can do virtual care,
and we get them licensed in 50 states.
So we get 12.5 million Kaiser members
that are traveling day and night or at their home,
and they can get access to virtual care
from an emergency physician,
same one that would see them in the ER.
And you can do it within the same hour, next hour
before you even get in your car and try to go somewhere,
go try to go to a waiting room and bring a sleeping bag.
So knowing all those things that actually helped us
flex our physician workforce by cross-training them.
And also, it is great for retention also,
because as an emergency physician,
I know you're also one too,
to have that option to try work virtually sometimes
and still provide great care
and seeing those patients in the clinic,
that flexibility has helped us actually flex our workforce.
So when COVID happened, that was a perfect example.
We're 85% in office, 15% virtual,
and within two weeks,
all of Kaiser Permanente across the country,
we able to flip that to 85% virtual, 15% in person.
<v ->That's really impressive.</v>
You got something to add?
<v ->Yeah, no,</v>
I was just gonna add,
I mean, listening to Dennis,
I mean, it's this question of healthcare
becoming something we do instead of a place we go, right?
So healthcare is still,
in a lot of circumstances a place we go.
We go to the doctor's office
or we go to the hospital, right?
And I always draw the analogy with banking,
because when I was a kid,
my parents went to the bank.
That was the only way you could bank
was to go physically to the bank.
Well, now there aren't even banks left, right?
Because banking has become a verb
and it's something that is done, you know, actively, right?
And I think the opportunity in healthcare is there
for the same kind of transformation from a venue-based,
you know, rate limited access point
to a more sort of 360 degree view of this is what we do.
We're doing healthcare,
we're not going to the hospital
or going to the doctor's office.
<v ->That really ties nicely with community health workers</v>
because community health workers
are going into the community, right?
They're presenting healthcare and wellbeing services,
not in clinics and not in hospitals,
but in libraries or in HUD housing sites
or in even grocery stores.
Even, you know, walking around the show floor yesterday,
there's a pod where you can get, you know,
all of your services potentially in a grocery store.
You can drop that pod in,
you can do your scans, your screenings,
you can check your weight,
and all of a sudden
bring access to people that need it anywhere.
And think about rural communities, lower income settings,
these are gonna be great technology solutions, right?
Other solutions that community health workers
are really great at is connecting the people
to these devices, right?
Community health workers are the ones
that can help teach people how to use
Bluetooth-enabled blood pressure cuffs,
how to help people get screenings
done from their home on their phone
when they can scan their eye
and check for a vision screening.
Community health workers are the ones
that can link the pieces.
The panel before this was, you know, a combination of,
I think Uber was there and Verizon, right?
Broadband is huge.
And so how do we make sure
broadband is a part of this conversation,
'cause all these devices rely on connectivity.
And then of course, telehealth, right?
Being able to do things through a device like a phone
is gonna be really critical.
And of course, Uber.
Uber's great as a technology,
but if they don't have the training and the skills
to teach a Medicaid member
who's on food stamps in a rural setting
how to use Uber and get access to their doctor
through this great technology,
they won't be able to use it, right?
So that's where the community can really step in
and be that tech enable, that handhold,
that friendly guide that can help you teach you
how to use these devices.
<v ->And I guess what I'm thinking about</v>
the connection of everything you've beautifully mentioned
is the workforce.
And that is a real concern,
burnout in the healthcare workforce.
We know that nurses and physicians are experiencing burnout
at similar rates.
Our most recent study tells us that nurses and physicians
identify and prioritize staffing the workload
and the culture of safety in their organizations
as the biggest barrier to their own wellbeing.
So when we talk about access, you know,
I can only imagine how that must have felt
to see a patient wait so long.
That does not add to your satisfaction in your work
because you feel like
I can't deliver the care I want to deliver,
and you don't have the workforce to move patients
through the system and get the care in a timely manner,
so that focus on workforce,
and how technology can enable clinicians
to be with patients,
I think connects everything we're talking about.
<v ->I'd love to jump in to that.</v>
And again, as a practicing physician
and seeing some of these struggles of access to care
and the lack of technology maybe supporting these
or opportunity to do that, right, folks waiting 24,
I always say, you know,
the worst example for those that aren't aware,
a work shift in the ER,
thankfully not in my current role,
but in the past inside of larger cities,
you know, people will have three digit wait times
like a hundred hours.
Especially unfortunately,
like psychiatric care we could go down a rabbit hole
But there's some tremendous barriers there to quality care
and to satisfaction around burnout.
And I think this is a topic I'd love to dive into
because burnout is such an important piece.
To each of you,
how is technology mitigating burnout
or improving the situation for healthcare providers
at all levels to give better care?
If you don't mind, Mary,
I'll come back to you and we'll go back down.
<v ->So one of the ways we see technology supporting</v>
is through AI use in staffing models,
being able to predict the level of staffing required,
the acuity of the patient,
so that not only the right number of staff are present,
but the right level of expertise and preparedness
in that clinician
is at the bedside with the right patient.
Certainly it's in beginning stages,
but that's a great opportunity as well
to grow and evolve that predictive view of census acuity
and the right clinician at the bedside.
<v ->Yeah, for us,</v>
I'm actually curious,
does anybody know what a community health worker is?
Okay, not bad.
Anyone heard of a doula before?
Okay, a little better.
So maybe just a quick explanation.
A community health worker are these frontline workers
that have lived experience
sometimes in paid and volunteer roles,
lots of times at nonprofits.
We'll see them at community-based organizations
working in public housing sites
or in the community working with loneliness
and social isolation for older adults in their home.
You'll have community health workers
at YMCAs and senior centers.
They're really just this frontline person
that can guide you and navigate you and coordinate care.
They go by many different names,
which is why probably people that don't realize
that community health worker are, you know,
call themselves care coordinator or a navigator
or a health advocate.
But it's really this growing workforce.
For them, you know, they're a little bit,
you know, emerging as a workforce.
And so for them, paper is huge,
spreadsheets, they'll bring their notepad into the home.
And so we think about technology
like there's so much opportunities, right?
Back in the days they didn't,
you know, do jump on a telehealth call.
They would actually drive to your home
and visit you and see you.
And of course that's part of the value, right?
They had that in-person,
person-centered, trusted relationship.
But for them, documentation has been a big burden, right?
Being able to document all the challenges you have,
do assessments, come up with goals,
create a care plan has been all manual.
I visited one of our partners recently
that's onboarding with us,
and we built a software solution for them.
But previously,
they had photocopied of a photocopy
of a photocopy of a photocopy,
which after a while it gets all blurry and you can,
I'm sure if anyone worked in community-based organizations,
you know what that means.
But that's what they're using in the field.
And these are, you know,
community health nurses actually doing street medicine.
And for them, you know,
being able to now document on their phone,
document on our app,
being able to take notes by recording themself
and translating that and transcribing it to AI
to develop a care plan has been huge.
Of course, when someone needs help,
they don't have to now get in their car and drive somewhere,
they can jump on a telehealth visit
and be able to provide them navigation
and actually show them how to use things like
the SNAP benefits registration site online
or getting the Affordable Connectivity Program,
which is a program for telehealth and broadband before.
So really great ways that technology can be used.
And I think the big question for us is
how do we go from paper and spreadsheets to the future?
And it's not a matter of jumping on day one,
we have to slowly transition them
because these are sometimes
older individuals with less education
that we have to kind of slowly walk with them
and go at their speed
and find ways to easily train them.
Because if not, we can actually, you know,
lose a big population if they can't keep up
with the needs of technology.
<v ->Yeah, so Adam,</v>
I think about the transactions in healthcare.
The transactions in healthcare,
whether it's documentation,
ordering, billing, insurance claims,
they're all unnecessarily complex.
And largely, you know,
an awful lot of them are still really manual
or there's a manual component
of processing those transactions.
And so I think about automation
when I think about the role
that technology can play in healthcare.
You know, we're on this kind of arc here
where we started 15 years ago where the government said,
it's ridiculous that all of our medical records
are in file cabinets.
And so we're gonna have a policy tries to digitize those,
you know, the recordkeeping in healthcare.
And we've done that.
But what we haven't seen in healthcare
is the level of automation of transactions,
the way we've seen it in other,
you know, areas of our lives, right?
And so because those processes are manual
and because they're all linked
to how the organization or the individual gets paid, right,
so there's economic skin in the game,
folks put up with that burden and they have to do it, right,
and they have to engage in these manual processes.
And I think there's an enormous opportunity for technology,
AI being just one example of the types of technology
that could be brought to bear.
I'll give you a very quick example.
Very basic transaction,
verifying a patient's insurance information, right?
We've all got our insurance card,
you go into your doctor,
you present the insurance card to the person
at the doctor's office or at the hospital, right?
The process of verifying that that's actually you
and that that card's not expired
and that you actually do have
Blue Cross Blue Shield or whatever
is done manually in most cases.
And we now have built some technology that does that
using AI automatically, right?
And it's a really low risk, you know,
in terms of patient safety issue,
but it is taking a manual process in healthcare
and automating it the same way
when I walk out of here and go down a Starbucks
and swipe my card for my coffee,
Starbucks somehow knows
that I have enough money in my account
to buy a $8 coffee, right?
Well, why is that not the same process that we have
when you present your insurance card
at your doctor's office or at a clinic
or at an urgent care facility?
So how do we automate these things that are,
you know, needlessly and mindlessly manual
right now in our system?
<v ->One quick question on that that I think,</v>
you know, folks probably have is why.
What's the barrier from your expertise and perspective,
why is that adoption so slow
when we have it in other places?
What do you think just some of the core factors
of what slows that growth down?
<v ->Yeah, I mean, I'll give one answer.</v>
I think some of it is the economics of healthcare, right?
So if I am in some other industry
that has been disrupted by technology
and I've embraced technology
and I'm able to do whatever it is I do
a heck of a lot cheaper,
that's really good for my shareholders, right?
In healthcare, there's not an obvious economic incentive
to do things faster and better, right?
There's no money that flows
when you do it faster and better, right?
And so, you have to sort of think about it that way.
Now, there may be, if you're a hospital,
there could be certain circumstances where that's the case,
but I think the economic models and incentives
are not always there.
And so as a result,
that pace of innovation has come about largely as a result
in my world of government policy and regulations
that have started to say,
we're gonna require you to have digital recordkeeping,
we're gonna require you to do
prior authorizations automatically
and electronically and so forth.
And so, unfortunately,
I wish it weren't the case that the government
is the driver of innovation,
'cause that usually doesn't go very well.
But in this case,
I think it is government policy
that's been nudging the industry
because of the lack of economic,
obviously economic incentives.
<v Adam>Yeah, thanks for sharing that.</v>
<v ->Yeah obviously part of it's risk averse also.</v>
I mean, we're in healthcare field, it's risk averse.
I mean, how many, who's here at CES for the first time?
Oh, I love it.
So I've been going to CES for about eight years.
And as a physician technical leader,
I don't go straight to digital health when you get here.
I don't go straight to the healthcare side.
We actually go to the convention center
and go check out the cars
and check out all the other cool little gadgets.
And not just because you're a technical geek,
it's really because you're learning
from all the other industries.
I think CES presents on the silver platter
what's gonna happen in healthcare
in the next five to 10 years.
It's gonna set the trend.
So we rushed over there yesterday
and we saw autonomous driving as the big thing now.
And I think that actually plays into
what we're talking about here too.
It's care delivery is like a supply chain, right?
There's first mile, there's middle mile, there's last mile.
First mile is healthcare team physicians.
Last mile is a patient and the support structures
that you guys support.
Middle mile is technology.
And that technology can automate and assist
all logistical clerical stuff.
And we gotta get that right
before we'll start going to the clinical part of automating.
But you know, we do that a lot here at Kaiser.
We do best practice alerts for sepsis.
You know, we make sure that there's proactive care.
Even though you're seeing a patient for stubbed toe,
they're due for the mammogram,
you make sure you order that also.
These are all the things that bridge care
and makes it more efficient and optimized
for that patient visit.
I think that also decreased the amount of touchpoints
for that patient also,
which adds more access to the rest of the workforce.
<v ->Thinking about that as well,</v>
what would that next level big picture coordination across
let's say a hospital, the community,
wherever health is needed.
Just a snippet of what a hospital looks like
when a team is changing shifts.
Nurses, physicians, therapists, nutritionists, you name it,
were handing off to each other.
And then that next person
based on their knowledge, experience, workload and demands
is prioritizing on their own what they do next.
So maybe a case manager's priority is one patient,
that patient may be on my list,
I may have a different priority.
So I've been thinking about
how can technology take into consideration
the acuity, the complexity and the priorities
of patients across an organization, across a population,
and prioritize what that shift looks like
for every clinician.
So that everyone's focused on the same priorities
at the same time,
making sure everyone gets the right care at the right time
with the team circled around them
rather than this fragmented priority
that everyone does with good intention,
but there's not necessarily an alignment during the day.
So the patient feels like the team is not coordinated
and the team feels the same way,
which adds to the stress and the burden and the workload
of everyone trying to do the right thing, work together,
but the systems aren't enabling us
to circle around the bed in a way
that feels safe to the patient as well.
<v ->And that scenario is like just an example</v>
of how complex healthcare is, right?
This is not an easy industry
and I think none of us here are here
because it's simple, right?
I think about education.
You go to one school and everything is there, right?
You have a teacher,
you pay them if you're a private school,
you get all your education there,
and you go home and you learn, right?
But in healthcare, you might work with multiple providers,
you have plans and different coverages.
Maybe you have different settings
where you get your pharmacy medicines from and your therapy.
I mean, this is a really complex industry
and I think that's also the reason why
there's so many opportunity
for both innovations and new ideas,
but also technology.
<v ->I've heard everybody here at some point</v>
bring up AI, right?
AI is the hot button topic across the board,
but I'd love to dig in on that for a second.
You know, at the clinical level,
I personally, you know, we were talking earlier,
I use tools like Open Evidence for search and verification.
I work overnights alone,
so I have no colleague to to fact check with.
So that's a great tool.
We use AI scribes now from various, you know,
everyone has an offering on that.
What does AI currently mean for each of you
in your respective areas of expertise?
And where do you see that going
under the umbrella of AI?
What is 2.0 of adoption and efficacy
in the various areas that you work within?
<v ->Certainly within the nursing profession,</v>
helping nurses understand the value
and helping them to adopt the value of AI
and engaging them on the input
of how it will help them the most.
Currently it is being used in the voice technology
within electronic health record,
certainly in some of our learning methodologies,
but there is so much opportunity
bringing nurses in to find out
first what would be most helpful to them
and then building from there.
But the opportunities are limited
when I think of virtual nursing documentation,
predictive algorithms for preventing infection and falls,
improving outcomes, improving the workforce.
There's so many opportunities.
<v ->Most of our users of our software,</v>
and we built a platform
that helps empower community health workers,
they aren't asking for AI actually.
And you know I've been on these sales calls
for a year and a half now
and not a single provider has asked,
what are you doing around AI?
You know, some of them are actually afraid of AI.
They actually think that sort of replace them.
And because these are frontline workers,
they think about other industries
where these frontline callers or these call centers
are being replaced by AI.
You know, I think we're a little far from that
for healthcare
because that's really the value
of community health workers, right?
Building that trust,
being able to understand and interests,
being able to ask the right questions,
and then provide the navigation and resources.
What's exciting is that, you know,
there is opportunity for AI to support and enable
and really supercharge
these community health workers and these frontline workers
and help them do their job better.
We're exploring a lot of things AI right now
and we're actually not telling our customers about that
because we don't wanna, you know, scare them.
But if it helps them do their job better,
it helps them more effective,
it helps them get more bills and claims in,
so they get paid, then they'll be happy, right?
We're doing things around, of course,
voice and documentation, billing,
but also training and workforce development.
Because community health workers is a rather new workforce
and a lot of them don't have standardized credentialing,
how do we use AI to analyze their calls
or to understand their documentation
and give them feedback so they can become a better,
more empowered and supported community health worker?
<v ->Yeah, you know, I,</v>
at Athena we talk about curing complexity, right?
And so I think AI,
and as I talked about transactions earlier,
there's not a transaction in healthcare
that couldn't benefit from greater automation
and some of that automation being driven by AI.
So whether it's insurance verification,
whether it's understanding
we have a epidemic in this country of insurance claims
that don't get processed properly
because of some tiny amount of information
that's missing on the insurance claim, right?
And so the doctor doesn't get paid,
the clinicians don't get paid,
because the insurance company is waiting on
some tiny little, you know, dot,
you know, box to be checked or T to be crossed, right?
AI can actually scour those insurance claims
and figure out what's missing and why it's missing
and identify where that data lives within a healthcare,
you know, electronic ecosystem,
and automatically included in the claim, right?
So there's a ton that can be done
on healthcare transactions.
There's also I think a lot
that could be done clinically, right?
I mean, you were talking about some of the tools,
we were talking earlier about some of the tools
that physicians are using that put evidence-based medicine
at the tip of your finger, right?
It would be as if you stopped
and spent an hour looking something up and researching it.
But you don't have to do that
because there's a tool
that will put that right at your fingertips.
So I think there's enormous clinical applications
and I think there's a ton of transactional ones.
<v ->Yeah, a lot of the ways we've been proven to use AI</v>
at Kaiser Permanente already is more of sensors,
like sensors on a car, right?
You can't be everything everywhere at once.
So what you use is you use AI
to detect patient that may deterior in the hospital,
you know, based on our AI algorithms.
You use AI for population health management,
'cause it's just too much data to look through with,
you know, human eyes.
So we've been doing that
and that's actually proven pretty helpful for us.
The case for
the one that we monitor patients in the hospital
to see which ones would deteriorate first,
that saved 500 lives since we started started.
So it's been been pretty good to be proven that way.
But also with 25,000 physicians, you want them to adopt.
So by encouraging the adoption,
by putting tools in our hand,
We use ambient listening for physicians to start trying.
Even though they make some really
great smart phrases already,
we still want them to try ambient listening.
We encourage them to use Copilot.
We encourage them to use ChatGPT.
And now I learned from Adam, Open Evidence.
So we try to encourage them to use all these new tools
alongside what their standard is,
whether it's up to date,
whether it's whatever literature they use
within their specialty.
That allows them to also build their own trust
within generative AI.
So I think that's the first part,
especially with physicians which we are very risk averse,
just getting them to put their hands on it
and try it and play with it,
I think that's the first step.
And as the AI gets better,
that will also help us already be on board
and not just try to get on the bus.
<v ->Yeah and actually let me just make one other point,</v>
which is you asked earlier
why there wasn't the rapid adoption of technology
in healthcare.
The other point when you said this
it made me think of it is,
we've got to, I come back to like the Steve Jobs
approach to technology, right?
The technology has to be developed
in order to solve a problem.
When it solves the problem, people will flock to it, right?
And they will use it and they will adopt it
because it's addressing a pain point that they have, right?
And so I think sometimes in healthcare we focus on
developing technology in a space
where there isn't necessarily,
where it's not necessarily solving a significant problem.
When you think about documentation of notes
in a clinical encounter
and how those notes ultimately wind up
being orders that go into the system
to order a prescription
or to order additional tests or whatever, right?
That process is really manual in most cases, right?
And that's changing.
Because physicians are starting to realize,
hey, I can use Ambient Notes to,
you know, use voice recognition software and AI
to record the encounter.
Right now, it's all about documentation,
but it's not that far a leap to say
at some point the AI can essentially
be turning that conversation with that patient
into a set of orders
that could ultimately go into a system
and automatically that's getting ordered
without having to have the extra manual step of,
okay, I've seen the patient,
I know what tests I wanna order,
now I have to go find my medical assistant,
download all of this to my medical assistant
and have my medical assistant go in some separate system
and enter a bunch of orders
for a bunch of additional tests, right?
That whole manual process can be AI driven and automated.
<v ->And the good about AI is that</v>
it gets better as you use it.
And so it's a plug to anyone out there
who's a executive or a physician leader or someone
like give some startups a chance.
Like, we need help getting feedback,
we need help testing things out,
give us pilots, help us learn so we can grow.
You know, when we first rolled out our platform,
it was terrible.
It is.
I feel bad for anyone that used it,
but it only got better over time
because we had more people using it, we got more feedback.
Now the feedback comes from our customers
not from our staff using it.
So I think give us a chance,
give us a opportunity and the AI will get better,
and our platforms will get better,
the solutions would get better.
<v ->And that will add to our ability to recruit and train</v>
and retain a health force for the future.
Because the up and coming nurses and physicians,
they've been raised in technology,
not like us who had to adopt it later on in our career.
So they show up and expect to have technology in their hands
and it is a great way to retain
the staff as well at the bedside.
<v ->This has been very insightful,</v>
lots of different perspectives.
I'd love to leave the audience,
many of whom have various, you know,
high level roles in their companies as well
with something that they could chew on or think about.
I'm wondering from each of you in closing,
what is one problem that you feel you can't solve
internal to your organization
that requires external collaboration
or external development of tech,
something that you're excited
to potentially see in the future,
something that folks could take home
and think on as to a way to innovate,
a way to incorporate with others in this system?
Mary, if it's good with you, we'll start here.
<v ->Sure, I don't feel any pressure.</v>
I think the thing we hear the most
in our work across so many organizations
is healthcare teams having what they need
when they need it for their patients.
So in any way technology can support
them having the right person, the right supply,
the right result, the right next step
so that they're not hunting and pecking
and spending so much time searching for things
that the answer is in their hand,
the person they need is close,
it's easy to communicate across a healthcare team.
Anything that eliminates all that time away from a patient
would be helpful.
Improving the transactions as Joe shared.
Bringing the experts to the patient.
Anything getting rid of,
anything that interferes with that
would be a tremendous help.
<v ->I would just encourage everyone,</v>
and I think this group here
is the innovative forward-thinking group, right?
But go back to your organizations
and see who else is out there that you have to convince
to explore new technologies,
to explore a different workforce.
You know, when we work with frontline workers,
like how can a community health worker
now support more clinics?
We actually train barbershops and barbers
on how to do health screenings
and we're doing that in LA and they're getting paid for it.
So how do they now work with the healthcare system?
So think outside the box.
We need your advocacy, we need your support,
we need your conviction
to look at technology and a different kind of workforce
to involve and support community health and wellbeing.
And I think together we can hopefully move bounds
and try things out
and hopefully get toward a more innovative
whole person care approach to care.
<v ->Yeah, I think the thing that's hard to change</v>
is the inertia against change.
My sister's a COO at a nursing home, she's a nurse.
And she, when I ask her some question
about some inefficiency in the healthcare system,
she'll say to me,
well, Joe, you don't understand,
that's just the way it's, right?
And I think we got to stop accepting things
the way they are, right?
We have to be outraged
the next time we walk into a doctor's office
and they ask us to fill out a HIPAA privacy form
on a clipboard with a pen.
That's outrageous, right?
We need to be bothered by that.
And we need to be developing innovative,
disruptive technologies that say this is status quo.
I mean, I make the point it's a little exaggerated,
but healthcare feels today
a lot like it felt 30 or 40 years ago.
Now that's not to say that we haven't made amazing advances
in terms of how to treat illness
and how to keep people living longer
and living healthier lives.
But the physical experience of healthcare
is almost identical to what it was for my grandfather.
That's crazy.
And we shouldn't accept that status quo.
<v ->So even at Kaiser Permanente,</v>
even though we have so many tools under our belt,
it's still there's a certain set of humility
that we sought to have,
certain Socratic wisdom
that you just know what you don't know.
So that's why I love coming to CES.
I encourage folks, you know,
I see a lot of first timers here,
I encourage you get involved.
You can get involved with CTA.
You can connect the dots with a lot of different folks
like I will be connecting dots
with you guys here afterwards.
And you learn to collaborate
and you learn to kind of grow the pie on
how to all of us solve these problems
because there's no one organization
that can solve everything.
We've seen some of the big guns
try to join in healthcare and try to solve,
and we saw how that lasted.
So I think it's the folks in this room
that are actually have passionate about healthcare.
You know, connect the dots with others around here
because I think that's where,
coming to here the last eight years
has really been enriching for me
to always learn something new and connect the dots.
And now we have many different partnerships
with Kaiser Permanente
with many other folks in the room.
<v ->If I can add one last.</v>
That is the thought of workplace safety
for healthcare workers.
Violence against healthcare workers is on the rise
and has grown exponentially since COVID.
And I've been so impressed by the level of security here.
Hospitals don't have that level of security
when nurses and physicians are walking out to their cars
or patients are escalating
because they're frustrated in the emergency room,
or in our mental health areas.
So thinking about safety for healthcare providers
if I could leave you with one thought
that would be real important as well.
<v ->That's fantastic.</v>
Thank you to everyone on our panel
and thanks to the audience for listening in.
We really appreciate it.