<v ->The human connection.</v>
How do people fit into technology, really, ultimately.
We're fortunate to have really some all star panelists,
so I'll take a moment to introduce each one.
First, our first panelist is Lilian Coral,
Vice President of Technology and Democracy Programs,
and head of Open Technology Institute at New America.
Lilian is a recognized leader in advancing citizen-centered
smart cities strategies,
leveraging technology and data to drive transparency
and innovation and governance.
And she's also served as the Chief Data Officer
for the city of Los Angeles,
where she transformed how the city used data
to serve its residents.
So, Lilian, welcome.
Next we have Dr. Bettina Experton,
the President and CEO of Humetrix.
This is a company that empowers healthcare consumers
through cutting edge mobile health solutions.
Dr. Experton has over 25 years of experience
pioneering innovations in population health
and chronic care management,
with her technologies deployed worldwide.
She's also a trained physician and public health expert,
bringing a wealth of knowledge to the intersection
of healthcare and technology.
And finally, we're joined by Kevin Webb,
Senior Director of Sustainability and Social Impact
for Mitsubishi Electric US.
Kevin leads sustainability initiatives across the Americas
and directs the Mitsubishi America Foundation,
which focuses on inclusion and accessibility.
With extensive experience
in corporate social responsibility,
he is a key advocate for integrating sustainability
and digital inclusion into business
and community strategies.
So awesome to be with the three of you.
Glad to have had the chance to really get to know
each of you over the past month and past days.
So one of the things we were talking about,
in advance of this discussion,
is really what are we talking about with,
you know, digital inclusion and ultimately,
I'm gonna turn to each panelist
and ask them to share their thoughts.
But our goal for this session really is to talk about,
you know, the human side of technology.
How do we make sure that there is inclusion, that for,
you know, we're at a point in time right now where we see,
if we went to the Nvidia presentation last night,
just the tremendous change that is happening all around us,
and how do we make sure that people are included in that,
that there's not a divide in terms of accessibility,
in fairness and so forth.
So, Lilian let me start with you.
I mean, the question really is around digital inclusion.
I mean, how would you define digital inclusion?
What does that mean to you?
<v ->Well, at the Open Technology Institute,</v>
our mission, as an example,
is ensure that every American has access
to technology and its benefits.
We're a US based organization.
And so for us, inclusion means that
literally everyone in this country and it need not be,
obviously just America.
Everyone in this space really has an accessibility,
a way to enter the internet,
and then has the ability to really maximize that experience
to their own benefits.
So to ensure that they can access the health resources
they need, pursue the education they'd like to pursue,
to be able to have the economic opportunities
that they envision, or if they are, you know,
if they have accessibility issues,
that they are able to have the tools to be able
to really leverage that technology.
So, you know, if you're blind that you can navigate,
you can still navigate here, experience the internet.
So for us, inclusion really is
getting everybody on the internet
and being able to maximize that experience.
What I would just,
where I would leave the definition is just
as a grounding context is there's one key data point here.
One in every five households in the United States
does not have access to the internet,
and that is because it's either too expensive
or it's not available in that area
because there just isn't service coverage in the way
that we are structured as a country in terms
of service availability and infrastructure.
Over the last four years,
we have invested as a country over $65 billion
to try to make inroads in that.
But that number still persists, so one in five households.
And that's really where we like to think about
like the digital inclusion journey begins.
How do we get that one remaining household back online?
<v ->It's an incredible number really to think about</v>
that in this day and age that there's that kind
of a divide still.
And one wonders what happens as more and more technology
rolls out and the existence of that.
So, thank you Lilian. Bettina, what about yourself?
And you bring a kinda an international
perspective, as well.
So when you think about digital inclusion,
what does that mean and why does it matter?
<v ->So as a physician who became a technologist</v>
and as a founder and CEO of my company, Humetrix,
which is about software for human beings,
for us, technology has to make a difference in our lives.
And when it comes to healthcare,
sometimes it's a life and death opportunity
or missed opportunity to be impactful.
And so technology has to be meaningful,
it has to be accessible, it has to be user friendly
so that with regard to healthcare,
we can address the barriers to access healthcare.
It's complex. It's multiple point of contact.
The information is not available at your fingertip.
And as a patient, as a citizen,
it's language you don't understand.
So we have developed technology globally
to address those barriers in communication
between a patient and his doctor, his nurse.
And so it's medical literacy.
It's impossible to converse,
because you don't speak the language.
We travel the world, disease travel the world,
we just came out of a horrific pandemic.
So we have to be able to communicate our needs
and our technology for us, the technology we provide
is a platform of communication across languages
and brings that knowledge at your fingertip,
both for patients and also the physician receiving
or communicating back to those patients.
<v ->Yeah, I think you've got really a fantastic</v>
real world example of that that we'll wanna get to
because it's something that people could relate to,
relative to the Olympics.
So I'm gonna come back to you in a moment.
Kevin, what about yourself?
How are you seeing digital inclusion in your world?
<v ->Yeah, so Mitsubishi Electric,</v>
when we think about the products we make,
we really want to contribute to a sustainable,
smart society.
So society is of course the center of that,
the people in the society.
And we make infrastructure, factory automation equipment,
big screen TVs.
And as we think about the products we make,
we wanna make sure that people can access them
and that they're connected.
And so we think about digital inclusion,
it's how do we connect hardware and software
and bring 'em together as far as the company goes.
And our foundation, Mitsubishi Electric America Foundation,
to really focus on empowering young people with disabilities
to lead productive lives.
So when we think about our work
helping young people transition from school to work,
what does that mean in terms of the new digital age
and the job opportunities that are there?
How should we be preparing young people with disabilities?
So we think about digital inclusion,
it's really making sure that the one in four people
in the United States, the billion people globally
that have some form of disability,
can really be truly included in that process.
So thinking about how do we make the tech we're creating
fully inclusive, starting with inclusion from the beginning,
making it accessible and really tying that into
the technology, both again, the hardware and the software
and creating a whole ecosystem
so that people can fully participate and be fully inclusive.
<v Joe>Yeah, so Kevin, in your experience, I mean,</v>
how big of a an issue is this?
I mean, and who is it affecting
and can you give some examples of maybe of the scope
of the impact, just to make it real for everybody?
<v ->Yeah, so as I mentioned, so in the United States,</v>
one in four people have some type of disability.
Most people find that hard to believe.
But if you think about disability broadly
and think about chronic illnesses and mental health issues
and so forth, it impacts all of us,
either personally or someone we love and care for.
So we think about healthcare and in the impact
of the digital technology in accessing
the healthcare system.
So yesterday we were actually sponsoring
an innovation challenge with a CTA foundation.
I happen to serve as a trustee with that organization
and thinking about digital health tech
for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities.
And how do you really, again, start from the beginning
to develop that technology inclusively
and thinking about how do we connect
the various systems we have and make it interoperable,
easy to use so that people with all backgrounds
and abilities can fully access and fully participate
in their own healthcare decisions
and control their technology.
So we recognized a company yesterday thinking about that,
but these are issues that impact everyone.
Again, the person with a disability, their caregivers,
their family, the doctors that work with them,
the first responders that work with them, their employers.
And so it's an issue that is pervasive
and if you really want to be fully inclusive,
as we develop that technology,
making sure that it is available for everyone to use is key.
<v ->Awesome, thank you.</v>
Now, Bettina, you've had a real example.
for the recent Olympics in Paris.
All kinds of issues in terms of people who might fall ill
or be injured, be able to communicate,
talk a little bit about what you saw in terms of
how the human connection can bridge the gap
between language and technology to help get better results.
<v ->So that was a extraordinary example of</v>
what we could face at scale.
So here in one place,
to watch, to live that extraordinary Olympics experience,
but things can happen.
You can get hurt, you can fall,
you can catch, you know, something of infectious disease.
And what the local health authority were concerned about
was to adequately care and triage the health needs
of those 10 million plus people who came as spectators,
the 15,000 athletes and para-athletes
who came from all over the world when those physicians
and nurses and paramedics didn't speak their language.
So the technology we developed to again,
resolve that language barriers
and also this medical language barrier,
which is more complex, is something way beyond
what you could get with Google translate.
So it's technology which can even speak
your medical history, your needs
in the language of the person you are seeing.
So you travel the world here,
you come to Paris for the Olympics.
So at every competition site, in the first aid station,
they could immediately access our software,
global health communicator to say or speak
why they were there, any kind of important medical history
there to communicate what medication they took.
And even if you think of the simple Tylenol here,
if you go abroad and look for Tylenol, you'll not find it
because it's provided under different names.
So it takes complex technology.
That's where technology can break those
barriers of information, access, and communication.
Takes a type of technology we develop
to look for the active ingredient of that drug
and find the corresponding medication
available in the country, you have visit in real time.
So at the end of the day, thousands of people
benefited from that technology from 97 different countries
and region of the world and speaking 22 languages.
<v ->I mean, that's incredible.</v>
And I can imagine the urgency of the situation,
someone has an immediate situation
and the technology that can bridge that gap
and help people communicate,
so clearly a way to bring people together.
Lilian, how about yourself?
What is an example of where you've seen
either a lack of digital inclusion and the adverse impact
of that or where you've seen a solution
that people have come together to bring
to help bridge that gap?
<v ->Yeah, so I think, you know, from sort of the</v>
deficit perspective, I think we think about examples
I shared with you, like for example, diabetes
is like one of the most sort of widely..
It's one of the most common diseases here in the US.
And a lot of information or a lot of access
to be able to treat the disease.
And it's actually a disease that's also very common,
like where your economic background
and your socioeconomic background really impacts
your ability to manage your disease.
A lot of the resources and ability to manage that disease
are online and yet, like we discussed earlier, you know,
the one in five households are usually the ones
who are most likely to have these kinds of chronic diseases
and not have access to internet
to be able to then manage the disease
or manage resources that could help improve,
like environmental conditions that can help it.
My background is really mostly in smart cities
as government implements it.
And so from a government background,
you can imagine that like mitigating the cost,
the prevalence of these kinds of diseases
and then trying to manage even environmental conditions
to help communities thrive.
Like not having access to the internet is a big issue.
The other kind of counter example that I would give is
around even just something like disaster response.
I live in California, we're in the midst right now,
one of a huge weather storm alert,
and then also just a huge fire that just erupted.
In these times, the ability to communicate widely
and broadly are just really, really critical.
And as we have more and more weather related events,
weather related emergencies, you know,
the ability of government to communicate to citizens
is going to be really critical.
On the flip side of that, even to communicate to citizens,
things that are happening in their community
for community engagement or for civic engagement purposes.
These are all reasons that require
more and more connectivity.
And I think it's, you know, it's also an opportunity
not just to access the information,
but really to start thinking about
when you access the internet and that information,
are you able, do you have the skills
to really be able to understand what is real information,
what is fake or mis or disinformation?
So those are really, I think, some concrete examples
that we're dealing with on the community front.
I think where there are bright stars in some ways
on the digital inclusion side, you know,
I think it's much more of, the bright spots I would say,
and I don't know that there's a solution per se, is that,
you know, this is a much more commonly known
and I think understood issue, right?
There's more of a recognition that we do have to get
and ensure that everybody has access to the internet
that has access to trustworthy information.
But there's still a lot of gaps in terms of understanding
the pervasiveness of the divide,
the amount of sort of cost that it is to the individual
to be able to access the internet.
I think there's just not,
I don't think we have a common understanding about,
you know, like the figure, I said one in five households,
how much it costs those households,
and then the ability to really understand the competencies.
We don't have a real kind of common definition
or understanding of digital inclusion to say
that there are common competencies that people need to
be had, but there is a bright spot in that we understand
that this is an issue
and that we have to do something about it.
So that's sort of how I would kind of frame the opportunity.
<v ->So you mentioned skills.</v>
I mean, this is something else, like when we think about
what are the skills that people are gonna need,
I mean, one of the things that we see certainly is AI,
which is becoming more and more pervasive,
it's gonna affect jobs,
many people think it will replace jobs,
and maybe over the short term it won't as much
as replace parts of jobs,
things that might be easy to automate,
administrative kinds of things.
So certainly there are skills that people are gonna need,
resilience and courage and a whole range of other things,
emotional intelligence.
What are the kinds of skills that you think
people are gonna need really to thrive
and to ensure that there is this inclusivity,
that they're not swept behind, so to speak?
<v ->Well, there's a lot of different frameworks</v>
and studies across the world.
In the US, we don't have a common framework,
but I think things, as you've described,
things that we think about in terms of core competencies
or things on the basic front, like data literacy,
but it is also things like problem solving skills.
I think the emotional intelligence piece
that you talk about is so critical,
the ability to go online and understand, one,
whether the information you're seeing is true or not,
but also to be able to kind of think,
"Does this sound truthful?"
Where could you, like to be able to investigate more deeply
into what you're seeing and not take it as is,
all of that kind of emotional intelligence, problem solving,
creativity, those are all part of digital skills
and competencies, in addition to kind of basic things
like data literacy, like being able to turn on a device
and know how to navigate the device.
So, and then the other, I think there's a couple
of other pieces around like privacy and security
that we talk about, right?
Like a lot of us even, you know,
someone who would think of herself
as pretty digitally literate.
We don't understand the degree to which our devices
need to be secure or could be secured, right?
I think a lot of times right now
we're struggling with a lot of cybersecurity issues
that are becoming much more consumer facing.
A lot of scams and phishing that will catch even the most,
you know, like literate of us, as we're seeing.
So there's things, competencies also have to include
things like security, like navigating privacy settings
and solutions and tools to really keep people private.
So I would say there's data literacy, there's security,
there's privacy, but there's a lot of emotional, social,
emotional, and then also as we were saying,
emotional intelligence and problem solving skills
that really need to be part of a,
almost like a comprehensive set of skills
that need to be put together.
<v ->It's interesting, you talked about even just</v>
the critical thinking skills.
<v ->Critical thinking.</v>
<v ->I mean, think about how many times there could be</v>
hallucinations in AI and you seek data,
you might seek a even a medical type of thing
that could be completely wrong or made up and so forth.
Bettina or Kevin, what about yourself?
What are the skills you think that really
are gonna be if we look, you know, a year,
five years, 10 years out,
but even in the short term, what are some of the skills
that you think are really important to ensure
that people are included
and that they can thrive as technology continues to advance?
<v ->So one of the great benefit of AI is that</v>
on the receiving end,
it will require less skill to understand, you know,
our environment and for that technology to be truly useful
and personalized for us.
So technology fails when it needs to be come
with instruction, right?
It has to be totally intuitive.
So we use a lot of AI in our technology,
like the one we are speaking of deployed in the Olympics.
We use generative AI to pre-populate
all the type of symptoms you could complain from
in various languages,
according to your cultural differences.
The way you talk about, I think in French they talk,
I am originally from France,
but I've been here for 40 years.
When you have a bellyache, you talk about heartache.
Well, if you translate that word for word in English,
a physician may think that you have some issue
with your heart when it is your belly.
So generative AI pre-populates
over 5,000 symptoms per language in various way.
Someone from Brazil, the US or anywhere in the world
could communicate and express what's wrong with them
and why they need medical care.
And so it's pre-populated,
it's there for you to pick and choose quickly.
So it's right there at your fingertips.
You don't have to learn any skills to learn it.
And you are a better communicator at the time of urgency
where this miscommunication could lead to
misdiagnosis and harm.
So I see lots of benefits in AI and again,
but you know, I've been in technology for 30 plus years.
We reach our goal when it's intuitive and easy to use.
So AI enables that.
It takes human intelligence, in our area of healthcare,
clinical intelligence to review the technology,
to validate the output.
It's not free floating, it's not access the world of data
and pulling anything in, or since you talked about privacy,
I mean, technology evolves, especially on the mobile side
where you can run your AI engines software
right there on the edge on your device.
For the Olympics, and many of our application,
we have a security privacy by design architecture.
No personal information is stored in the cloud,
no cybersecurity risk.
You don't have to figure out privacy setting
because your data don't go anywhere.
They stay put in your device and encrypt it secure.
So there are ways to address those true risk
and at the same time benefit from those technology advance
AI is bringing to us.
<v Joe>Kevin, how about you?</v>
<v ->Yeah, so of course working with young people</v>
with disabilities to help in the workforce,
we're actually excited about the future
and the opportunities that present themselves
with the adoption of AI.
So again, our company makes factory automation equipment.
We're trying to automate the manufacturing process
and eventually robots are fixing themselves, right?
Predictive maintenance and doing work
that a human used to have to do.
So as we think about that, there are a whole new set of jobs
that come in with the manufacturing industry,
and this applies to all industries,
but if you think about manufacturing jobs,
so people can sit in their living rooms
and run an assembly line, like that is where we're going
to with some of the technology that's coming in,
which opens up a whole new world for people
that formally couldn't, that one of the biggest barriers
of employment for people with disabilities
is getting to a job site if there's no public transportation
and those types of things.
So you have a whole new world of job opportunities available
using new technology that we're all learning about, right?
And so preparing that workforce for the future,
whether you have disabilities or not,
helping those young people really gain those skills
and what are those new jobs?
And, but again, you have to make it accessible
from the beginning to really provide those opportunities.
If you're managing an assembly line
and the computer monitor is up on the second floor
with no elevator, right?
You've just eliminated a whole group
of people who can get those jobs.
So with people in wheelchairs.
So you need to really think about
that accessibility from the beginning
and preparing the younger generation,
the next generation for that next generation of jobs,
making sure they have access to that digital literacy
in the schools, in the community colleges,
and our foundation's really partnering
with community colleges in things like the trades
and in things like manufacturing jobs,
things like healthcare that you wouldn't typically
think about the opportunities for people with disabilities
to work in those fields.
But with the growth in technology and thinking about, again,
things like AI and
there's just so many opportunities out there.
So we're excited about the future,
but we need to make sure everybody's prepared
and that the systems are accessible from the beginning.
<v ->I mean, it sounds like that's one of the big, big things</v>
that we need to think about.
I mean, part of what we were talking about ahead of time
was just even an awareness of the problem, right?
We think the people might be like us,
everyone's got access to the system,
they understand how to use it and so forth.
But the reality is that there are many people
who are disenfranchised, they don't have access
to the technology, they may not understand how to use it
and so forth.
So what would the advice be then?
I mean, for people who are here
and people who might be developing technology
or thinking about deployment of it,
what would you recommend?
I mean, how do we solution for, so to speak,
some of these problems that we're seeing?
<v ->I'll say my recommendation is to include the users</v>
in the development of the products you're developing.
We actually did this with this innovation challenge
I mentioned.
Inviting people with intellectual,
developmental disabilities in
to provide focus group feedback to startup companies,
developing tech for that population,
but really making sure that people from all backgrounds
are in that test data and really identifying challenges
from the beginning so that we can truly have developed,
digitally included products from the beginning.
So that's one thing is in the disability community,
there's a phrase, "Nothing about us without us."
So making sure that we're including them in the process
of developing that user experience.
And then something I mentioned earlier was the idea
of that interoperability and connecting, you know,
not just making one-off apps,
but how does the app operate with another app?
How does an app operate with Zoom technology
or whatever it is.
So that really making sure that we can seamlessly,
people can seamlessly interact with the technology
we're developing.
And that's the human connection part.
<v ->And in healthcare,</v>
the technology has to be accessible for all.
And, you know, healthcare organization
have been on the tech side very antiquated for a long time.
And introducing new technology is a challenge
because you have to disrupt existing workflow
and complex workflow.
So you have to clearly understand
how people conduct their work,
where they are, and integrate that technology
which makes sense for them.
So back to the Olympic story.
So on one hand, you had the patient side, visitors,
athletes, para-athletes.
We had to quickly communicate what they need.
On the other hand, you had physician and nurses
in the trenches, well,
in the first situation in competition side,
over 200 of them.
And then in hospital emergency room.
We couldn't ask them to download an app,
to put new software in in their system.
We had to find a way to bring that technology
right there at the point of care,
which will not interrupt the way they were working
and it could be immediately usable.
So we use QR code technology for that.
One scan of the QR code on the patient side.
One button to say speak French for me.
And using AI again for that voice feature.
All of a sudden you spoke French in this instance,
or you could speak Arabic elsewhere
and you didn't interrupt and disrupt that nurse workflow.
You help her understand what you are attempting to use.
And then we structure the information
so it's in indeed digestible for that clinician
who has to quickly make sense of it.
So if you present that information in a way
which is understandable and immediately ingestible
on their side.
So it takes also that effort of usability
in the receiving side.
So we had to work on that as well.
<v ->And I would just add, you know,</v>
from our perspective, we tend to be
more on the sort of advocacy side,
promoting these issues of like internet for all.
And I would encourage folks here on the industry
and the technology side to make that your cause as well.
Right, to recognize that in some ways, right,
if we want a smart city, an interconnected city,
an interconnected world, it will require
that everybody be on,
that's how all of our products proliferate, et cetera.
And so in some ways the ensuring that
everybody gets on also pushes your need
and is also kind of advancing your vision of the world.
And so becoming a champion of that cause is really important
so that it doesn't just become something that advocates
are solely pushing for.
I think a little twist on what Kevin was saying
about user testing groups, you know,
the technology is a place where there's a lot
of user testing that goes on in the early
stages of development.
And I think yes, including the end users is important.
But I'll give you an example.
When I was Chief Data Officer of the city of LA
which is now feels like a lifetime ago,
companies like Uber and Lyft
were the ones who were coming out
and testing their products in Venice Beach and Silicon Beach
and Santa Monica.
And they tested for users
that they presume would be their clients.
But one of the interesting things is we started
to see all kinds of demographics,
groups that were in like mobility deserts,
that didn't have access to transportation easily
using their products because they fit that need.
So when you are doing your user testing,
I would challenge you to question who are those unexpected
or unlikely users and include them as well.
And then, you know, lastly, I do think it's important
to think about what are the digital skills
and competencies that are truly needed
to be able to use your product.
Like think about that expansively and broadly,
so that again, you're questioning your design assumptions
and then trying to really ensure
that your solution can really serve a very, very
broad cross section of the population.
<v ->Lilian, I think you're making</v>
a critically important point,
and that is to respond to those real needs.
I think part of your development team needs to
include people who have worked in that area
where you want to address those issues.
So we have as many clinician as technologists in our company
who have worked for, you know, in the trenches,
who know what's our emergency room operates.
Who have been nurses or physicians.
So I have some of that experience,
and then the public health view of things.
This is key.
You know, providing technology per se
for techies is not the point.
If you want to make a difference in the lives
of individual and globally even more.
We have to respond.
We have to to be impactful again.
With meaningful technology, which everyone can use.
And in healthcare, you know, post pandemic,
we, in fact, lots of healthcare worker have left the field.
So you have staffing issues and technology is here again
to address this difficulty to access healthcare.
How many of us have difficulties making a
doctor's appointment for herself or a loved one?
I have an older mom, I cannot wait three weeks for her
to see, you know, a physician.
So that's how telehealth happened
and that's where you can have some answer at your fingertip
on your mobile phone.
AI lets you personalize the messaging, for instance,
manage this diabetic,
or you have environmental issues in California today
with very dry and windy air, which may exacerbate
or create, you know, asthma attack in asthmatic.
Knowing at the population health level
that you have those individual with asthma,
with those risk of developing an acute episode,
you can message them precisely
because you know they're at risk
in those environmental condition.
So with this difficulty to access healthcare
at the individual level, but with those tools to manage
at the population scale, the healthcare needs of many,
but in very personalized, individual ways,
this is what technology and especially AI powered
technology can do today.
<v ->You know, that's a good point. If I could add one more.</v>
<v Joe>Yeah, please.</v>
<v ->I also worked in philanthropy</v>
and worked in supporting efforts
to deploy emerging technology across various cities.
And one of those efforts was really around the deployment
of autonomous vehicles.
And one of the things that I would encourage you all to do
as well is to deploy, deploy, deploy
and really test in very different environments.
So we looked at how that testing
happened in different cities,
in different parts of those cities.
And then again, all of the insights that
what you were saying, you know, all of the insights
that you gather from that diverse deployment strategy,
I think is really important.
Oftentimes what we found in that context was
we were really deploying these AVs in environments
that were suitable for the technology, right?
So flat roads, really sunny environments, Las Vegas,
Phoenix, but what where you really have difficulty
and where you're actually gonna learn a lot as a company
and I think grow is when you go to like the Pittsburghs
of the world, which is actually a hub for, but right?
And you're training your technology on the hilly roads
or you're going to environments where
the language is gonna be an issue for how
to get into the car
or not everyone is gonna have a credit card
to be able to access it.
So another, I think big lesson on this digital inclusion
is to test a lot
and to test in environments where you're not,
you're really gonna learn a lot as a company.
I think it just makes you a lot stronger as well.
<v ->I can't help but think</v>
when I'm listening to you and Bettina,
we're talking about skills.
I mean, empathy really is something
that you're putting into your design
and your testing process, which is to
really deeply understand the customer
and what those customer's needs are.
And the fact that we're even having this conversation
is an awareness of a real problem that so many people have.
Kevin, when you were talking about the number of people,
25% of Americans who have some level of disability,
that's incredible.
So to be aware of that right, is just really some,
I mean, it's a starting point for all of us to think about
trying to see things from people's perspective
and to innovate around that.
<v ->Yes.</v>
Oh, in healthcare, you know, for a long time
and still are, we are, you know,
medical knowledge has been privileged
to those clinic medically trained people, physician.
You know, when I came to public health,
I understood that the more informed and educated
the individual you you want to serve are
the better off you are.
So why not breaking that medical knowledge
to everyone, right?
That's what technology provide.
And again, AI can do that in a more comprehensive,
personalized way at a population scale and very fast.
So that knowledge is no longer privilege.
And at a time when you cannot access a doctor
or you have to wait to get to this clinic,
then you may get this precise, personalized information
right to you and in a way you can understand and act on it.
<v ->So we have just a couple left.</v>
If there's one thing that you would leave the audience
with, one idea that you'd say is the most important thing
you'd wanna share, what would that be?
Kevin, we'll start with you.
<v ->So the one thing, and I mentioned it before,</v>
is that "nothing about us without us" concept
and really developing, as you're developing new technology,
really making sure that it's designed from the beginning
with different audiences that technology is designed
to serve and those that you don't really think about,
back to the point earlier.
So making sure that you're including people
in the user experience so that it is designed inclusively.
Think about (indistinct).
<v ->Thank you.</v>
<v ->Here we are at CES, the world, you know,</v>
is assembled here to see the latest
of the latest in technology.
So this is an exciting time
and we should not restrict ourselves at looking
at the technology pertaining to our industry or interests.
Let's be open-minded in terms of what we see out there.
And so stop by or boost at your metrics.
And so if I try to communicate what we are doing,
you can leave it and see it in person.
<v ->Connection or how much does it actually reduce it?</v>
And I think really think about ways of integrating
more opportunities or practices to ensure that
that connection is actually stronger than ever.
I think when you have that in mind,
I think we'll definitely be in a much more inclusive place.
<v ->The challenge and the opportunity for all of us,</v>
I think is going back to the, I think empathy, you know,
to really be aware of people who may need access
to these kinds of things and don't have it.
And in what ways can we help?
What ways can we help them have the skills that they need
so that they can participate so that there's not
five years from now really a greater divide.
That is our time today.
I wanna thank this awesome panel that we've had
and thank you all for being here today
and hope everyone enjoys the rest of CES.
Thanks for being here.