<v ->Well, welcome, everyone, to the Postprandial CES session.</v>
I know folks' glucose might be challenged.
We've talked a lot about glucose monitors
the past couple of days,
but we promise to keep this session spicy so
you all stay awake.
<v Guest>That's good news.</v>
<v ->It's about tech</v>
on the front lines
and how we adapt technology for healthcare.
So the premise that we're gonna go with is
that utilizing tech for healthcare is
different than other industries.
And people may disagree,
but that's the premise that we're gonna go with,
and that we haven't even really tapped
the true potential of tech and health,
given all that we've seen in the various exhibit booths.
And then finally, we're gonna learn
what can other industries learn from health and wellness
in terms of how we're adopting tech?
I'm John Whyte. I'm the Chief Medical Officer at WebMD.
Many of you know it and have come to it.
It is a huge online platform.
It's our 30th anniversary this year.
So we have survived.
That's a long time-
<v Guest>Wow, that's</v>
a long time.
<v ->For the tech industry.</v>
And we have a great panel today to talk
about what this session is all about.
So I'm gonna allow them to introduce themselves.
<v ->Hey, friends, I am Jen Gardy.</v>
I'm with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
It is our first time at CES.
We are incredibly excited to be here.
My role at the foundation, I'm a Deputy Director
on two teams within our Global Health Division.
One is the Malaria Team,
and one is our Institute for Disease Modeling.
And at the end of the day, most of my work
at the foundations rolls up under the umbrella
of how do we use data, including digital data
for better decision making.
<v ->Hello, everyone. My name's Karen Finger.</v>
I'm with Verizon Business, and I'm our Global Lead
for our Connected Health Strategy and Innovation Ecosystem.
And what that really means is we,
if you think about Verizon at a macro level,
we, our vision is to build connected experiences
and have an impeccable consumer experience,
and also an impeccable enterprise employee experience.
So what our team does is
literally we adapt that for healthcare.
So we take a look at all the assets
and capabilities that Verizon can bring forward
around the transformative nature of our 5G network
and platforms, edge computing,
our security portfolio.
Verizon, little known fact, we see
over 70% of the world's traffic.
So as we think about healthcare, to John's point,
security plays a big role.
And so we help, you know,
figure out and bring expertise forward
around building those secure platforms.
We've got, we look across our IOT platforms
as well, and then our CX platforms.
And if you, we also look inward at Verizon,
and how are we leveraging for our own company around?
We run one of the largest retail organizations
and supply chains in the world,
so, and consumer channels.
So what learnings can we adapt from that
to bring into healthcare?
We deploy vast technologies into venues,
retail, hospitality, financial services.
And so we, part of my role is
to look at across all those technologies
and leverage that to help solve complex problems
in healthcare around how do we extend patient access
to underserved communities?
How do we personalize the experience?
How do we capture, secure, collect, move the data
around the ecosystem between the workforce,
the med tech devices into the home,
you know, building that
smart connected hospital ecosystem, if you will?
I'll be quiet now 'cause I gotta let Zach,
but one quick thing is we always get,
which is I still find very interesting
after all this time, is what's Verizon do in healthcare?
So hopefully, you know, we'll shed
a little bit of light then.
But I think Uber now, you've superseded us
and topped us in.
When I've mentioned you were gonna be on the panel with me,
what's Uber do in healthcare.
So that's a good segue.
<v ->Okay, there's</v>
one moderator here.
<v ->To turn...</v>
<v ->That was a fantastic segue. Thank you.</v>
Zach Clark. I'm the Global GM for Uber Health.
To your comments, what is Uber doing in health?
So we are a platform that extends access
to non-emergent medical transport
as well as delivery into the home.
We work directly with medical providers,
health systems, payers, and states
to extend the underlying network
that Uber curates and bring it to healthcare.
So our customers leverage us in every day to move patients
to their homes and into clinical settings.
And then we also do the reverse, right?
So we then bring things to the home,
whether those are prescriptions, healthy items,
OTC, grocery items, et cetera.
<v ->All right, good afternoon. I'm Mattias Lange.</v>
I'm from NXP Semiconductor.
I'm running, I'm Vice President of the Industrial Systems
with a special focus on health.
And I've been running our personal health business
that had a specific focus on portable
and personal medical devices.
And we all know that all technology, right?
It runs on semiconductor, it runs on chips.
So we are one of those who provide all
of the fundamental technology that enables
all of these great applications
and everything that we will talk about.
<v ->So the premise of this session, again, is that</v>
tech and health is different than in other industries,
and everyone likes to think that they're different.
So I'm gonna start off last first and start with Mattias
and ask how is tech and health
different than other industries?
And if you disagree, let's hear it..
<v ->Because you promised to keep it spicy, right?</v>
So I'll say-
<v John>Yeah, you are</v>
the one that keeps it spicy.
<v ->Right outta the gate.</v>
So for us, and you're right,
all industries say, "We are special," okay?
And we work at our company, we are in cars,
we are in medical, we are in consumer applications,
all kinds of industrial.
I would say fundamentally, most of the technologies have
a lot of commonalities.
You want more compute power, you want AI capabilities,
you want security, you want connectivity,
wireless and so on.
So for us, the fundamental building blocks are
very much the same.
The instantiation of them are different.
And I would say actually one
of the biggest differences is the ecosystem.
What do I need to actually build a complete system solution?
So the fundamental technologies
I would argue are not very different,
but it's the ecosystem
and what actually creates opportunities
and willingness for people to invest and go
and develop the final applications.
<v ->Yeah, I would say for Uber and for Uber Health</v>
in particular, I would agree with you.
I think the fundamental building blocks need
to remain the same.
Certainly there are requirements about data security,
HIPAA security, et cetera, that make the way that we manage
that data or the way that we can leverage that data
differentiated from a true consumer experience.
But I would also say that if we're doing our jobs right,
we're bringing the magic
of what a consumer experience is to the space.
And that's something that we think really critically about,
which is in an environment that is notoriously difficult
to navigate, it is complex.
When's the last time anybody in this room understood
what their EOB was, let alone an EOP?
And I use that as an example only
because the reality around the complexity
of navigating the system is already really challenging.
And so we want to take the best of that consumer experience
and those building blocks and then impart them
and hopefully shed value, create value
and shed a light on what can be made easy.
And I would say the second piece
of that is there are few experiences
in healthcare that are always the same.
There's not a lot of redundancy,
there's not a lot of scalability in some cases.
That's why it's so fragmented,
particularly here in the US.
And so I think there's something to be said around,
at least for Uber, the repeatability and durability
of knowing exactly what's gonna happen every time I get
into that vehicle and I get to a hospital and I get back.
And I, knowing that and having that,
that to me is kind of the building block
by which we think about where there's differentiation, so.
<v ->Yeah, that's a big question.</v>
So we come at it, our point of view is,
and again, we, I've had the privilege
of working really in, across all the different kind
of vertical industries,
and they all have their own personality
and nuances and regulations, but healthcare, as we all know,
is just complex and hard.
So as we think about adapting the technology,
I mean, foremost as we're building
those network connectivity, strategic platforms is
starting from the ground up and building it right.
And then once you build out the proper platform
that's strategic, it becomes
an innovation utility platform, if you will.
We think about how do we make sure it's secure and trusted
and then frictionless for the end users,
for the consumers, for the patients, for the members.
And also how do we make it easy to use
for the clinicians?
And there's such a vast shortage of clinicians.
And so how do we, and you know, we find, like,
our team ends up working with and talking to
and collaborating with clinicians
and we say, "You bring the clinical,
we'll bring the technical."
But we've gotta have their buy-in upfront.
You know, where and what can we automate
across that ecosystem?
But I'd say secure, you know, thinking mostly about security
and the user friendliness of the experience,
both for the providers and the patients
so they won't use it.
And patients or consumers really, they don't wanna have
to use their healthcare,
but when they use it, it's gotta be, like, easy to use.
<v ->And I'll answer it from a different perspective.</v>
You know, at the Gates Foundation,
we work in the Global Health and Development space.
So bring a different lens than my fellow panelists.
I think the first thing that I would mention is that
in that space, developing technology for health isn't
a nice to have or a need to have.
It's, like, a moral imperative.
If there is technology that has the potential
to improve health outcomes around the world,
to save people's lives,
we have to be developing this technology.
It's a must.
And then part of that, you know,
Karen talked about designing systems
right from the ground up.
And part of that is designing for access too,
because health technology is nothing
without access to that technology.
You can have the most incredible product,
the most incredible offering,
but if it can't get to the communities where it is needed
and if it's not taken up,
if the community's not receptive to that,
you're sort of innovating into a void.
And the last point I'd make
from the global health perspective too, is that for us,
technology encompasses innovation
at a range of different scales.
I mean, yes, some of it
to Mattias's point includes semiconductors,
but some of it can be, you know, as simple as
a plastic sheet or a color changing sticker.
So our view of health technology might be
a little different than my fellow panelists.
<v ->Well, actually, can I add on to that?</v>
<v ->Sure.</v>
<v ->Yes.</v>
So great points around, I'm thinking about delivery
to the point of care, or the point of need.
So we spend a lot of time thinking
about how do we extend our network and our capabilities
and our vast partner ecosystem together
to deliver care into, you know,
the rural parts of the world?
So some examples are,
you know, we've stood up private networks out
in, like, an Indian reservation in Alaska
to bring healthcare out there.
We are looking at how do we connect
the home as a smart patient room
and really become that care,
that assistant to the care team
through intelligent automation into the home
or within the four walls of the hospital.
And we look at even, I mean, I could walk around...
I mean, I had to be, this is my first CES.
I'd have to be here, like, a month to probably even,
and I don't even know if I'd see everything.
But you know, when I walk through the halls,
whether it's a healthcare company or not,
it's, like, how can we adapt that for healthcare?
And we, you know, there's even interesting
strategic partnerships we've done with,
around banks as an example,
to put health station kiosks at banks
to deliver point of care, you know, access there.
So there's a lot of interesting...
We just have to experiment and try different things
and some things work and some things don't work.
But you know, we really, because we're connecting
that entire ecosystem, we see kind of,
we get a perspective from all the different endpoints,
if you will, of the point of care.
<v ->Much of the conference is about the future, right?</v>
The future of tech.
And, Jennifer, you and I were talking before we came in,
that does tech and health have to be different
than tech and other industries in the future?
What do you see that and what needs to change for us
to get there?
Is it regulation? Is it workflow?
Why are we different, and how do we become less different?
<v ->Yeah, well, I think one of the things</v>
that we really have to lean into is looking
for multi-sectoral solutions in the health space.
You know, Karen just spoke of how
it's about the entire ecosystem to get innovation out there.
And that's really what we're seeing at the foundation.
It's not enough for us to invest
in a really amazing product,
but we have to be thinking about things like,
you know, what does the future of the market
for this look, what does that look like?
And how can we help that to evolve
in the way that it needs to?
What does the future of the regulatory ecosystem look like?
And can we be supporting entities that help set the policy
or, you know, accelerate time to market
for some of these innovations?
So for us, a lot of it is thinking about how do we just go
beyond the health sector to leverage, you know,
other sector's expertise and past experience?
And I think one of the other things that we need
to look at too, and that I'd love to see represented
in future CES's is changing the geographic focus
of tech in health as well.
'Cause as I go out and look around the CES exhibit floor,
you know, I see a lot of stuff coming from North America,
from Asia, from Europe,
and I would love to come to this event in, you know,
two or three years and see tech innovations
that are coming from say, the African continent,
because you do have there an incredibly fast growing market
and incredibly young population is gonna be really receptive
to both using and developing these sorts of technologies.
So for me, the future is both multi-sectoral
and, you know, a dramatically expanded geographic footprint.
<v ->Zach has leaned forward.</v>
So I feel like there's something you wanna say.
Is it payers? Is it regulators?
What needs to change so it's more uniform?
<v ->There's quite a bit that needs to change.</v>
I think we all know that.
What I would say though, John, is it's different.
Let's use my business for example,
which is non-emergent medical transport,
which many of you may not have experienced before.
But if you're not familiar with it,
it is essentially a benefit that
every Medicaid beneficiary of the United States has.
And the requirement, effectively going back to 1971, is that
if you're going to take federal dollars
to perform, or not perform,
but to serve Medicaid beneficiaries in a state scenario,
you have to offer transport
for those who are transportation insecure.
So this is something that's been going on now
for multiple decades.
In that construct, there are still 24 states
in the United States that don't allow rides hare companies
like Uber or Lyft to participate in those programs.
Still today there are states that say
taxis have preference over ride share
or ambulatory entities have
preference over ride share, et cetera.
And why is this?
There's a whole lot of regulatory capture
that's kind of embedded in it.
But the reality is these are technologies that have been,
that have diffused around the world.
They are low cost, they're redundant,
they create magical experiences
for both the driver and for the patient.
And they're still not allowed in several states, right?
And so in many states,
even when there's a low cost requirement,
which requires the entity that's managing that program
to choose the lowest cost provider for that beneficiary,
we would be the lowest cost provider by 20%.
But we're not even in that market today
because of the historical constructs
and the protectionism that exists
in the marketplace today in that scenario.
And I leaned in because that challenge doesn't exist
in the Medicare Advantage program, right?
Medicare Advantage is adjudicated at a federal basis,
it's funded through taxpayer dollars directly.
It is a federal program.
And in that scenario, we have no barriers to access.
So seniors are taking rides now at historical rates
and transportation programs
that their health plans have been offering now,
really since the advent of SSBCI,
but even a little bit before that.
So you're looking at five or six year window of time,
and in those cases the proliferation
of access has been really demonstrable.
So patients get where they need to be,
they get there efficiently, it's cost effective,
and it's an experience that I think has
a lot of empathy for that patient and the user.
And so to your, why are we different?
That's a great example where the complexity of regulation
that are sometimes completely in conflict
with each other create really strong,
I think, barriers to access that I think we need
to think about changing, so.
<v ->Yeah, I think we can't get out of our own way here</v>
in the US sometimes.
I mean, I've been to the first,
the telemedicine conference that was in China
and they were doing things that, you know,
early, I mean, this was 12 years ago in telemedicine
that we had yet to do here, because, you know,
see more of a single payer system,
which can simplify things.
But to your point in other geographies, right,
what can we learn?
I think out of a necessity, they're doing things right.
They're innovating and have a more sense
of urgency towards it than I think we're...
I do feel a perfect storm coming here for 2025
with just the massive amounts of data
that everybody wants to harness
and deliver in real time to clinicians
for faster clinical decision support,
for better patient experience, you know, care anywhere.
But the prior panel,
the Chief Medical Officer for ResMed said,
you know, I think the best quote I've heard so far was,
you know, "We have to get over ourselves
and embrace the disruption,
maybe not take ourselves so seriously
and just start doing things and executing."
And I think, you know, it's time to really start executing.
It does not have to be different than the other verticals,
other than we are dealing with life and death.
But I think there's ways to right solve for that.
<v ->I think that you asked, John, what is different</v>
between healthcare and other places,
because we also know that we have the technology
to solve a lot of the problems.
So we know that nurses are overworked.
They're overstressed.
There are horrific numbers actually showing
how many nurses actually want to quit and so on.
There are solutions that can release their burden,
but because of how things are budgeted
and who's paying for what,
the technology doesn't get accessed.
So I'll give you one example is
something that we have solutions for is
smart wound care.
70%, we have numbers showing that 70%
of wounds in hospitals are not treated correctly.
And you could get to the terms of that
to a high degree if you had intelligence in those dressings
that could measure pH, pressure and a bunch of other things.
So that technology is actually available,
and it's pretty cost effective,
but there's inertia in the system to get those kind
of things deployed and get those things out,
because of the way things are structured and budgeted
and paid for and so on.
So these are key things I think that the industry will need
to work at to get access to the technology.
<v ->You know, much of healthcare success is</v>
based on partnerships.
It's very hard to have a technology
in and of itself to be successful.
I mean, we've heard about this.
You know, wearables
without including healthcare providers is not
gonna be successful,
which is a little different than some other industries.
So where have you seen partnerships
in health tech be successful,
and where have they might have failed?
Who wants to take that one first?
<v ->I would say another thing.</v>
I know where I want to see it go, okay, more so.
So because we are showing things here
where I think we can take things to the next level
of providing a much, much better care,
and I think the partnerships are absolutely essential.
The way things are going now
with everything getting connected,
more data and everything is getting more available is
it's all about systems.
It's about not how does this thing work,
this individual thing.
How does this thing work together with other things?
So we have one example that we are showing here
at the show is a in-home care system
where I can provide a different level
of surveillance or care over somebody in a home
by combining things,
by combining different type of sensors,
blood glucose sensors together
with other things like fall detectors
connected to a caretaker, connected to a home
and even to 911 or alarm systems.
An example is that you can find somebody unresponsive,
somebody trips or falls over,
and becomes unresponsive in their home.
A system that connects multiple different application can
draw an analysis and say, "Hey, something happened.
The blood glucose levels became low,
the person fell over, is now unresponsive,
I'm calling the caretaker."
So through the network caretaker might or might not respond,
the system can connect to 911,
get the emergency responders out there,
open the door, let them in,
and actually even guide through the house,
the person to the right place.
To get these things to work, it's a whole network of system
and things that needs to work together.
And I don't think, we are not there yet today,
but these are the kinds of things that we need to drive for
and the collaborations that needs to happen.
<v ->Jennifer?</v>
<v ->Yeah, I was gonna add</v>
a perspective that again,
from the Gates Foundation perspective,
our work is entirely done through partnerships.
We're not doing this work ourselves.
It's our partners that are out there having this impact.
And the partnerships exist across many scales.
It could be, you know, working
with an individual researcher, innovator somewhere,
private sector, academic labs, regulatory bodies,
all the way up to these big entities.
Things like GAVI, the vaccine procurement distributor
or the Global Fund for Commodities for HIV, TB and malaria.
But no matter the scale of that partnership,
one of the things, you know, you ask what makes
for a successful partnership or when that fails
can tell you time and time again,
is if that partnership does not include
community representation and the people that you are trying
to design that tech for, it will fail.
So to go back to my earlier point about the importance
of access to innovation, that community engagement
and having people with lived experience being part
of the design process from day zero is,
I personally think the single best ingredient
to set a partnership up for success and impact.
<v ->Yeah, I think I'm not so sure, like, failure would be</v>
the right way to think about it,
but versus, you know, challenges.
And I'm seeing it's kind of evolving
in an iterative process,
but we in our role at, you know, our team at Verizon,
we end up talking to and working with
and partnering with retail health providers.
So all the, you know, the CVSs, Walgreens, Walmarts, right?
All that channel if you will, which is kind
of going direct to consumer threatening some
of the healthcare systems.
So then we work with the healthcare systems who want
to protect their turf and build, you know,
their own smart connected hospital ecosystems
out into the communities and extend their brand and reach.
And then we work with the health plans
that are also have their own actually physician providers
and some of 'em their own hospitals.
So it often looks very siloed,
and we're like, why aren't you guys all talking
to each other and come together?
We are starting to see that now
where the health systems are starting to work
with the retailers to kind of build more of that
hub and spoke or collaborative
community engagement and platform
and really figuring out,
you know, as a patient starts out
on their healthcare journey from their home,
how do you get 'em to the right place, at the right time
for the right need for their, you know,
healthcare moment in time, if you will.
So it's just a complex, right,
relationship ecosystem and we are starting to see
a lot more collaboration there, you know?
'Cause it all has a role to play.
And yeah, that's, yeah...
<v ->I think from my lens, John,</v>
when partnerships don't go well,
they don't go well because the objectives
between those two organizations are not
really clearly defined and aligned
right out through the relationship.
And so, we see that a lot where there's
a lot of interest in brand equity,
or there's a lot of interest in research,
or there's a lot of interest in other aspects
of things that we may be able to contribute.
But if the organizations, the ethos aren't aligned,
and the objectives aren't aligned to begin with,
I think it becomes a really challenging environment
to get to define really what success looks like.
And then you end up in a scenario where failure is
a really obvious kind of next door, so to speak.
So I know that's a comment more around when we don't,
when it doesn't work, but I think that has been the kind
of the ethos of the industry in the last couple of years.
I think Rock Health a couple of days ago announced
there were 400 digital health or other partnerships
that were announced in some form or fashion in 2024 alone.
Like, it's an enormous amount of activity.
Like, what that activity is creating, I'm not sure.
Not sure yet, so.
<v ->I'm gonna turn to the issue</v>
of frontline workers in health.
All of you have spent a fair amount
of time talking about the impact on patients,
and that's a good thing.
But understanding the healthcare workforce,
which we've heard over the past couple of days
globally is challenged by the number
of healthcare professionals,
and the belief that there will be shortages
this year, end of the decade.
So how can AI, other tech tools help
address this issue with frontline workers?
Some could argue sometimes it makes
their lives more difficult.
<v ->Oh, go ahead.</v>
<v ->Yeah, this is very dear to my heart,</v>
because I think we have a responsibility as an industry here
actually not only in healthcare but across the board.
And I think also first we need to realize we are
at about the level of hello, world,
of what the capabilities are.
We are just starting.
So the AI capabilities are really enabling things
to become more intelligent.
So far, when people have mentioned smart,
it's been, it's meant connected and not much more.
But with the AI capabilities, we can make things
more real smart, provide some real intelligence,
and this will change completely
how we interact with technology.
<v ->Like, genius. I'm thinking of a better word.</v>
Really smart.
<v ->Yes, very smart,</v>
intelligent, I dunno what's the next.
We have to find another word for smart.
Okay? We've passed smart.
And I think it has the possibility
to completely, fundamentally change how we do it.
But then the people who develop the technology,
we have to put the user at the central focus.
We have to make it friendly, we have to make it easy to use
and we have to clean out a lot of those issues that we have.
So all of the potential
is there.
<v John>Who's the user?</v>
That's part of the question.
<v ->The healthcare worker. Okay?</v>
So the nurse, whoever's using it,
because if I spend all my time doing a setup
or trying to make the thing connect or get the...
We can't have that.
Okay. We need to get past those things.
But if we do, it can really provide
that next level of help, so it can really change things.
<v ->Can I-</v>
<v ->Let's go down the line.</v>
<v ->Can I just get my clinician to look me in the face</v>
while I'm out in an actual clinical room
and actually look at me instead of the EMR?
'Cause that's step one, right?
<v ->Yeah, yeah.</v>
<v ->Like, that's, I think that, like,</v>
I say it just because, like, incrementalism is okay here
to me at least, right?
Like, whether that's because ambient listening then,
and AI-generated ambient listening then allows you
to be more proactive
around in the patient experience in a clinical setting,
those types of things.
I think we forget a lot of times though,
it is horrible to be a patient
in the system that we've generated today.
So all of this needs to be geared
towards improvement of that experience.
And a patient's experience is going
to be better when you have a liberated provider
and a provider that feels like they can operate
at the top of their license, that they can bring the empathy
that is the origination of why they're in this industry
to begin with, to the experience
that that patient is having.
So my hope is that we're okay with incrementalism,
as long as there is a really clear focus
on the improvement of those two experiences.
'Cause it's broken right now.
That relationship is fundamentally broken.
<v ->Right, so part of our vision is</v>
we've got to make the hospital smart
so it is literally a member of the clinical care team.
Feeding, delivering information over, you know,
seamless, reliable connectivity platforms to the clinicians.
So if you think about just, you know, use case example
around the smart patient room,
lots of things going on inside that patient room.
Lots of data being collected
around remote patient monitoring, fall detection,
patient, you know, patient even controls
around controlling the environments
within the patient room around, you know,
the lighting, the temperature.
I need a blanket or I need my food.
So instead of AI, we think of it as intelligent automation
and automating that, that's relieving the burden
on the nurses from running around doing non-essential tasks
so they can then operate at the top of their license,
but have a view.
You have virtual nurses that can offload
the nurses that are on site at the hospital
where they can be monitoring patients
in real time predictively.
And then, also thinking about okay, you know,
moving that now, you know, virtual discharge is
another big low hanging fruit use case we're seeing
where nurses can do that virtually inside the patient room.
And then really taking that smart patient room,
when we think about it, it's not just
inside the four walls, but now into the home.
And that's just another node, an endpoint
on a, you know, unified, cohesive,
connected network platform that's really becomes
the care delivery platform.
But if, you know, we make it smart, then it literally is,
it's talking to those clinicians
and doing a lot of their
manual or you know, non-complex tasks.
That offloads them.
That's the number one thing we're seeing
and having conversations around right now
to relieve the burden
and address the shortage of clinicians.
<v ->Frontline health where we work looks very different.</v>
And if folks haven't had the chance
to visit Gates Foundation booth in Hall D,
there's actually a really cool immersive experience there.
You can put on
a little helmet-
<v John>Tell us the number</v>
of the section.
<v ->It's D something five.</v>
<v John>Oh, sorry. Nevermind.</v>
<v ->Something, something,</v>
54735.
<v ->Okay, all right.</v>
It's a big booth. I've seen it.
<v ->It's a big one.</v>
Turn right at the robot dog and you'll find us.
But there's this really cool immersive experience there
where you can put on these goggles
and travel to a village in Zambia
where you're following polio immunization workers.
And this thing, I tried it out yesterday.
I have traveled to these locations myself.
It is incredibly evocative,
and what you'll see is what the lived experience
of a community healthcare worker in a setting like
sub-Saharan Africa looks like.
And so for us, AI is really transformative for those,
call them CHWs, community healthcare workers
in so many different ways.
I mean, yes, there's the opportunity to have chat bots,
especially chat bots done in local languages
that they can use to sort of access information,
review a patient's concerns,
get some suggestions as to what's happening.
And you have to remember these community healthcare workers,
these are typically volunteers from the community.
They're not nurses, they're not doctors,
they're just individuals who might have
no more than a grade school education.
But through training courses
and through essentially kind of decision tree algorithms,
we have equipped this workforce with the ability to diagnose
and treat some of the most common things that you'll see,
you know, out there in these settings.
Things like malaria, diarrheal diseases.
And so with AI, you then have this opportunity
to expand really by orders of magnitude,
the ability of conditions that these CHWs are
really equipped to diagnose and manage.
So tremendous opportunity for improving sort
of the footprint of care that they're able to offer.
And the other thing that we see a lot of happening
in the front lines isn't just patient level care
but population level care.
Global health is about population and public health.
So how can you take AI tools
and use them to improve service delivery
for population level interventions?
And you know, I could talk for hours
about some of the things we do in the malaria
and the polio and the immunization space,
but things like using AI to process satellite imagery
and identify what is likely a residential structure
versus a non-residential structure
so that a community healthcare worker can go out there
with a smartphone, know which structures they have
to visit to administer vaccines,
they can quickly on that smartphone platform,
mark a house as visited.
That same cell phone platform can be used
to issue a micropayment to that healthcare worker
for their services.
So we see AI as an incredibly enabling technology
on the front lines, but also as something that's plugged
into this larger digital health ecosystem.
A lot of which boils down to one device in your hand.
<v ->We only have a few minutes left.</v>
So I wanna end with hearing from each of you.
We talked about how tech and healthcare is different,
but what can other tech industries learn
from the health and wellness space
that maybe they should adopt to be successful?
Who wants to start with that?
What are the lessons learned in the health space
that others can benefit from?
<v ->I'll start.</v>
I think patience is something that we've had
to learn in this industry.
<v John>P-A-T-I-E-N-C-E.</v>
<v ->Patience.</v>
<v ->T-I-E-N-C-E. (laughs)</v>
<v ->No, P-A-T-I-I-E-N-C-E.</v>
<v John>Okay, as opposed to-</v>
<v ->Patience, not patients, but patience.</v>
And I say that because the time it takes
for innovation to proliferate in healthcare is
probably three to four times as slow as it is
in other sectors, right?
And so when it happens, its scale, in that scalability,
that moment comes, it's transformative,
but it takes a lot of energy
and a lot of patience to get there.
And I think that for organizations
that are thinking about coming into this space
and even looking at things like commercial terms
and you go, well, it takes 2 1/2 years,
like, effectively to sell to a health system,
and somebody looks at you like,
"My sales cycle's 2 1/2 years?"
Right, like, so I think there's a a degree of acceptance
of, like, of the speed by which we operate
and make decisions.
And I think you have to be able
to really address that meaningfully
if you're going to make a change in this industry.
<v ->That's a great point, 'cause the field often seems</v>
very much in a rush to get something done.
<v ->There's also in all industries that require things</v>
to really, really work, you have to pay attention
and have to have a higher level of quality.
You don't want to have a pacemaker that's gonna give up
at a certain amount of time.
And so we have actually learned
from a semiconductor point of view
a lot on how to ensure certain levels of quality
and so on in the devices.
So that is something actually that
other industries are taking great benefit
from the work that we do together with them.
<v ->Yeah, it's about the evidentiary threshold required</v>
to get a technology to uptake.
And I think as you're developing technology for health
or developing it in other sectors,
paying attention to the rest of that enabling ecosystem
and what needs to be done in that regulatory space.
Who are the policy makers?
Who are the decision makers
that will ultimately help your tech to get to market?
I think there's a lot that other sectors can learn
from how we in health manage what can be
fairly complex stakeholder dynamics in that regulatory space
to actually get things over that evidentiary threshold
and into market.
<v ->And, Karen, we'll give you the final word.</v>
<v ->You know, it's funny, I spend so much time thinking</v>
about what we can learn from the other industries
to adopt for healthcare.
<v ->I mixed it up at the end.</v>
<v ->So you're really</v>
flipping the switch here.
You know, I would say really what I'm most, you know,
learnings and impressed by is
the number of people
and different stakeholders that truly want
to try to figure it out and solve problems.
And just working with, I spent a lot of time,
surprisingly, I mean, really spending
a lot of time talking to the clinicians,
and like, what are they trying to...
So really having access to that,
the people that have the ideas and that are using it,
and have to use the technology so that,
you know, I know we've talked about people need
to collaborate more, but there is a lot of, you know,
brain, I think thoughts and ideas
and collaboration going on.
It's just a matter of now, like,
how do we really actually execute, you know,
stop talking about it and executing it?
I do wanna do a shout out
to a colleague, Fred Moltz, out there.
I see you. Yeah, so interestingly enough, he's with Verizon.
We met for the first time yesterday.
We didn't know each other, but he leads
our Accessibility Programs at Verizon,
which is a huge thing in healthcare.
But what we were talking about yesterday,
and we're excited to collaborate more
to figure out how do we bring that forward
to solve really problems
across all our verticals at Verizon.
But if you solve it for, you know,
what he shared with me which resonated is
if you solve accessibility problems, you're really elevating
and improving that experience for everybody,
not just people with disabilities.
So that's, like, a win-win across the board.
So I think we can get some learnings from that
and apply it, you know, to all aspects
of different industries and life and verticals.
<v ->Well, our red light is flashing,</v>
so that means our time is up.
I want to thank the panelists
for sharing their insights this afternoon.