<v Chris>Well, we're in session three now of Connect2Car,</v>
celebrating our 25th anniversary.
How many of you were in the last session?
Excellent.
This is gonna be even better.
Because Matt Jones is here to moderate.
Mr. Global from Ford.
And I met Matt at Angelo's Pizza in New York City.
He was speaking at our Connect2Car
that we did in New York City,
and I watched him down a pizza that had pineapple on it.
So, those of you that are purest-
<v Matt>Pineapple and pepperoni.</v>
<v Chris>Pineapple and pepperoni.</v>
They actually work well together,
even though it's in New York City
and we're having pineapple pizza.
But, Matt, this is gonna be a great panel.
I'm gonna look forward to this one as well.
So, Matt, I'm gonna let you take this one away.
<v ->I appreciate it.</v>
Thank you so much.
Thanks for joining,
especially after joining Ellis in the previous panel.
You may have noticed me run up to the stage
and swap out with Chris.
I was just getting briefed by my PR person from Ford.
So today I will not have opinions,
but I will subtly indicate where I have opinions.
Help me with this as an audience.
It's really important to me.
But more important to me,
I'm just gonna be moderating this panel,
which is really asking the questions,
trying to turn it into a conversation
more than just a set of fixed answers that we've got.
Because if we think about what we're talking about,
this is like experience.
This is what we will have, what our families will have,
what our friends will have.
Everything that we're looking at
in automotive in the future years.
And if you just rewind 20 years, and believe it or not,
I think this is, like, my 19th or 20th CES.
If you look at what was on the market there
with Chris and the aftermarket and Sony head units coming in
and where we are now,
and if you think about where we are potentially going
with autonomous vehicles,
all the extra entertainment systems,
Scout today announcing satellite communications
in the vehicles,
there's an awful long way that we've still got to go.
But this is technology,
and hopefully from the panel today,
we're gonna hear about
what we've achieved in the last 20 years,
we should be able to do 10 times faster.
And in reality, we have to 'cause our expectations,
you've heard me say it a thousand times,
are really being set by the mobile device experiences,
the different digital technologies
we're seeing in other industries.
So how can we leverage that and move forwards together?
But enough of the introduction.
Rebeca, would you like to introduce yourself first?
<v ->For sure.</v>
Thank you, everyone, for being here.
Very happy to be here, Matt, and everybody.
My name is Rebeca Delgado.
I'm the CTO for Intel Automotive.
At Intel, we're very focused on how to accelerate
what we're calling software-defined done right
precisely to enable these new experiences
that our consumers and customers crave.
So very excited to be here today
and, you know, having some of these
very important conversations on how we get there together.
<v ->Hi, everybody.</v>
Thanks again, yes, for being here.
My name is Parrish Hanna.
I'm a director within the Capgemini automotive practice
in North America.
We're leading management and technology consultancy
that combines strategy, technology, data science,
creative design and engineering expertise,
hopefully coming out with innovative outputs.
I'm fortunate 'cause I get to work
on kind of transformative,
innovative topics with OEMs and tier ones,
in particular, next gen vehicles, ecosystems,
experience roadmaps, those kind of things,
everything we're gonna be touching upon
and how fast it's gonna go.
I have a formal background in industrial product design
and software development.
So the physical-digital sweet spot
is definitely where I like to play.
And over my 30-year career,
I've worked for a handful of corporations
and consulting companies,
covering a couple different verticals,
including consumer electronics, telecom, and automotive.
So, thankful to be here.
Always happy to fill the 2025 cup
with optimism and inspiration and hard work.
So, thanks.
<v ->Hi, everyone.</v>
I'm Arianne Walker.
I'm the chief evangelist for Amazon Smart Vehicles.
I'm thrilled to be here today.
And we really, you probably know,
are focused on the in-vehicle experience.
So inside the cabin of the car,
specifically around the voice assistant
and really working on collaborating
with automakers and suppliers
to create great experiences for customers
so that they can be productive and entertained
while on the drive.
I'll just mention one specific example quickly,
well, I'm sure we'll talk more about it as we go.
But we launched with BMW last year
their intelligent personal assistant,
which is built on the Alexa Custom Assistant technology
or what we call ACA.
And that has been, you know, wonderful for customers,
but we're taking it now to the next level,
adding in large language models and generative AI.
And that'll be coming later this year.
But we're at CES,
so you don't have to wait to see it.
You can actually see it in action in the Venetian
if you get a chance to go over there
where we're actually showing off
how we can sort of level up these experiences,
particularly around the space in navigation,
trip planning, and points of interest
to really be able to leverage all the great technology
for a fantastic customer experience.
<v ->And rounding it out is, my name is Tim Yerdon.</v>
I am with SAE ITC,
which is industry technology consortia,
which is an affiliate of the broader SAE family,
which is really focused on bringing industry together
to solve industry problems.
So when you think about large technical problems
that a company, whether it be a tier one or a tier two
or within the ecosystem
as we'll talk about in a little bit,
they wouldn't solve on their own.
How does somebody like SAE as a family
bring these companies together
to actually develop best practices, write standards?
So we're not doing iterative work,
wasting precious engineering resources
and competing against one another.
It's how do we move faster quicker
and deploy technology in a way that is very experiential.
So with that...
<v ->Well, following that,</v>
I guess, Tim, we're gonna go to you first.
And if you think about my introduction
where we've got all of these rapidly evolving experiences,
you've just heard from the panelists that we've got a range
of different parts of this massive automotive ecosystem.
I think everybody here knows that without silicon,
without software, without the cloud,
without tier ones, without OEMs, there's nothing.
How do we foster and actually drive the collaboration
across all of these different parts, Tim?
<v ->Yeah, great question.</v>
And, you know, I think for many of us
that have been in this industry
or around this industry for a long period of time,
the traditional hierarchy old model is dying.
You know, the pyramid structure of, you know, the OEM
to the tier one, to the tier two,
to the various service providers is going away
for, you know, multiple reasons.
Back to what you mentioned about adopting
a lot of the consumer electronic best practices.
We have to work in an ecosystem,
and those ecosystems are made up
of multiple players of different skills
and different technologies and different disciplines
that all have to come together
to make these end-to-end solutions work in a meaningful way.
And we have to change our business models,
we have to change our engineering
and our internal operating structures
to be able to adapt to these methods and ways.
Otherwise, we're just gonna be doing it the same old way
and not delivering at the speed
that, you know, other global markets around the world
may be moving.
So, we really need to, you know, abide by those principles
to be successful as an industry holistically.
<v ->Yeah, I'll jump in.</v>
You know, we really think,
I sort of mentioned this in the introduction,
but we really think about how we work with automakers
and suppliers as a collaboration
that's sort of critical to our business.
You may know, you know, we started out
by bringing Alexa into cars,
which was, you know, our homegrown solution,
you know, that we brought to bear
on inside the vehicle cabin.
But we've sort of pivoted
and shifted the way we think about this
to really be sort of, I'm gonna say truly collaborative.
Of course we were working with automakers before,
but now we've shifted so that what we're doing
is we are creating the foundation
and the building blocks of that technology.
'Cause that's the stuff that is hard
for individual automakers to do on their own, right?
And so the way we think about it
is we wanna bring the best of Amazon
to bear on the experience
and have the automakers and suppliers
bring the best of what they have to offer.
And together, we can create these really great experiences.
So, as I said, we think about those building blocks for,
I'll use ACA again, Alexa Custom Assistant, as the example.
But we created those building blocks
so that the automakers and the suppliers
can actually create the customization piece
so that the technology really feels
like an extension of the vehicle
rather than just adding something to the vehicle,
you know, that already exists.
So the automakers are able to, on this technology,
create a custom wake word, a custom voice,
and those customized experiences,
those value adds to be unique for their brand,
their vehicles, their customers.
And we continue to invest and innovate
so that we sort of keep pace
with the changing consumer expectations,
you know, as you said, right, with mobile devices
always changing, always staying updated.
So thinking about how we do that with over the air updates
and making sure that those experiences
stay current and are great for our end customers.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
And one of the things,
and Parrish we've discussed this
over and over again over the previous years.
It's great to say there's this collaboration,
but, like, what do you collaborate on?
We've got all these pre-competitive things that,
do we need 20 different operating systems in a vehicle?
Do we need the APIs all to be different?
And then we've got these massively competitive things,
which are the experience.
And some of the less software savvy companies
perceive that anything that you could possibly need
to deliver an amazing experience is all IP.
Where where do you see this going?
How could we actually collaborate?
<v ->Yeah.</v>
And, you know, it's IP and then maybe the battle
even internal to the OEMs
where I need to be on the first surface,
or I need my feature front and present, right?
So I'll take a different spin
and I think maybe it's the mindset, right?
And coming into it
as a kind of joint storytelling group, right?
So I think it's setting expectations
with multiple suppliers,
you know, true partnership and what does that mean?
So there's new business models
and other things that Tim referred to.
But for me, you know, I slant towards consumer centricity
and holistic understanding of how people think and behave
and their emotional response.
And I think it's storytelling
and I think it's a really detailed curation, right?
And who is it that does that curation?
I don't think there's a lot of people that can do that,
but, you know, it's the agreement of,
"Okay, we're gonna be in these lanes
and we're gonna have these roles.
But our end goal is to do this."
And I think I'm a broken record
on saying we don't create experiences,
we create the opportunity for experiences.
So on the back end too now,
we know what's working and not working.
We know constant,
with ability to constantly improve.
So again, all that mindset of decoupling
and iteration and true collaboration,
knowing that in the end,
it's gonna be positive for everybody,
particularly the consumer,
you know, I think that mindset.
<v ->And if we have that mindset of collaboration,</v>
but we've also got this mindset
of rapid iteration, rapid release,
what is it that we can be doing as an industry
across all of these different companies,
across all of these different open source alliances,
SAE, COVESA, all of these others
to actually foster that collaboration
outside the contracts in some ways.
And maybe that's Tim, maybe that's Parrish,
maybe that's Rebeca.
<v ->So I'll jump in here.</v>
And I'm gonna dial up a little bit the spiciness level here.
The realities that automotive has been, as an industry,
a very siloed technology industry
because we do have very differentiated requirements
attached to security and safety, right?
At the end of the day, each one of our products
deal with the safety and security of human life, right?
That being said,
as the human-centric experience of the vehicle
requires all this collaboration,
back to your point, Matt, of competence and competency
and technology and IP across the board,
what I like to encourage the automotive industry,
although it's tends to be not in our DNA,
but other industries,
the way that they've del delivered this opportunity
for value and experience and innovation
has been done already, right?
So for us to see these massive technology players
that deliver content and human experiences,
the opportunity to create that value
resides in the software defined architectures.
And that's literally the technical term
for that re-architecture of those technologies
that allowed for the internet and the telco companies
to truly cooperate on how to allow every ecosystem player
to deliver value in their areas of expertise
so that then the innovation cycles
could then be rapidly iterated towards, right?
So it's a very painful transformation that we're all facing.
But at the end of the day, the encouraging element here
is that it's been done in other industries successfully.
We've been doing this in automotive as well already, right?
We've adopted, you know, very enthusiastically
things like ethernet, right?
But for this technologies to exist from scratch
would be absolutely massive investment.
So the encouraging thing here
is that a lot of these transformations
have happened in other industries,
and we can borrow enthusiastically from those practices
of open platform approach
that then allow us to deliver value in this layered mindset.
<v ->Just maybe to add a little bit to this,</v>
because, obviously, it's what I do and what we do at SAE.
But there's those that collaborate
and there's those that talk about collaboration,
and all the stage are people that actually do collaboration,
which is great.
Because we can have things on the shelves,
we can have all these different organizations.
But if you don't bring people together
to solve the problems,
and, you know, it's quite a sight
when we have our meetings on virtually or in the room
and I see multiple OEMs, multiple tiers,
multiple service providers,
all for, at first, usually discussing and arguing,
and then eventually collaborating,
writing best practices,
and then ultimately developing standards.
And this is where we need to get to.
Not everything needs a standard,
but, you know, the things that are proprietary
and beneficial for your individual companies,
they have to stay that way.
But there's so many things underneath the layer of,
you know, the iceberg under the waterline
that we can do and make sure are in a place
where we're not doing this redundant engineering work
that we all struggle with.
And I think that is the way of the future.
If we can, you know, have the right mindset to move forward,
that's the difficult part.
<v ->Anecdotal story time.</v>
So, you know, and it's actually that forced collaboration,
and sometimes it has to be part of your performance review.
It has to be part of your KPIs.
I mean, my experience in some companies
where there was this dogma
and people just didn't show up collaboratively
and multidisciplinary, they no longer had a cubicle.
They had a seat like this
at the big **** table we'd call it at.
At Dual Brands, they have the big ash table,
their table's made of ash, right?
And everybody is like,
"Your assignment for the next six months
is at this table next to, you know,
these complimentary disciplines.
Here's your problem.
You know, here's your roles and responsibilities."
And that's...
It's uncomfortable and it's forced,
but, you know, after a week,
it's where you go every morning, you know,
and that is how you work.
and you're working on whiteboards and mural and Miro,
and it's iterative and so forth.
So...
<v ->And it's almost that startup culture.</v>
And it reminds me of some of the conversations
we were having last night.
And we're at CES.
There's thousands, if not, tens of thousands of startups.
You can see many of them at the COVESA event
this evening over at the Bellagio.
But in reality,
as I go around all of these different incubators,
all of these different startups,
the standard question is,
"How long did it take you to develop this?"
"How long did it take to develop
your amazing concept of a future product?"
And they give me a number,
and it's normally, like, four to nine months.
And they say, "How much time did it actually take you
to get that base platform
before you could start building your experiences
and your product on top?"
And invariably, it's at least half that time.
And then I think about it.
It's like all of those startups
and all of us with the experiences we want in the vehicle,
all going in different directions
to create the same thing that underpins
the thing that we all want, their true IP, which is on top.
And if we can get this collaboration,
if we can get these underpinnings
from an open source or proprietary
or software as a service model, anything,
it must be better for automotive,
as well as the other industries.
But I guess, Rebeca, we are...
Have you noticed we're actually steering super clear
of discussing any possible future experiences?
I don't know whether this is on purpose.
And I'm not gonna try and draw it out of the team yet.
But given all these future experiences,
you know, the ones that we're really reluctant
to talk about,
what are the underpinning technologies that we'll need?
<v ->I love that that segue, right?</v>
At the end of the day,
the future feels like this horizon line that we can't get to
because exactly what Matt just articulated, right?
Everybody's reinventing the wheel
and spending the majority of their cycles
in just the baseline
before you can deliver any innovation
or value or differentiation, right?
So in that regard,
because Intel's DNA has been,
you know, years and years of delivering compute
for all of these foundational technologies
that now we're leveraging
for the automotive future vehicle experiences
and the current vehicle experiences,
our ultimate commitment has always been,
as a company, to open compute,
open platforms, open APIs, open software.
Because only through this forced collaboration, right,
that allows for interoperability,
allows for, like, the best solution to solve the problem.
It's where you can then finally encounter
that possibility of scaling, right?
'Cause without scaling,
the future just continues to escape
your grasp of the minimum viable product, right?
So that open collaboration mentality
then needs to truly trickle down
to the elements of your solution and your underpinnings,
which at the end of the day,
we all talk about software defined as a buzzword.
But software defined means that this value
is your north light of how your whole company and operations
get guided through,
and then inform the articulation of the infrastructure
of all of your elements of technology, right?
For that to exist,
it will mean that none of us as ecosystem players
can own everything, starting with the OEMs, right, Matt?
So it will require these layered mentality
instead of being vertical to being horizontal.
And for that horizontal collaboration to occur
for the future to realize,
it will require truly that open perspective, right?
And then second, everybody's very, very focused
on the highest performance socket, right,
because that's what's the most direct impact to the eyes
and the emotional response of the consumer.
But the other element
that we're all forgetting in this fragmentation of solutions
is that these solutions have to scale
to every level of vehicle, right?
So open compute, open software, open APIs,
but then it cannot just address
the most premium or the lowest, right?
An OEM...
I mean, Matt, you tell me.
An OEM doesn't wanna pay
three different solution stacks, right,
for their whole vehicle lineup.
So this has to be software defined first,
then it has to be scalable.
And then it has to be,
let's see at the whole vehicle as a platform,
as a sandbox for innovation for future-proofing.
Because if you don't future-proof,
the future catches up with you
and you are no longer viable.
So software define that it's open,
that it's scalable,
and that has a holistic approach
looking at the whole vehicle as a platform
for a sandbox of innovation.
<v ->And you're absolutely right.</v>
From the OEM perspective, if you think of Ford,
we sell Rangers and Territories into Sub-Saharan Africa.
Even if we just look at the US an F-150,
bestselling pickup truck,
we have something that is literally a job site
right the way up to these premium towing vehicles
that would do hundreds of miles.
Huge dynamic range.
Many of the vehicle systems are similar.
We would want to reuse the software.
But when it comes to infotainment
or ADAS or audio systems, the seats,
all of these different pieces
that we don't necessarily think about,
we have to have that low overhead configurability,
maintainability from the software
based on roadmaps of silicon, not just one level.
But didn't want to not let Rebeca down
with the OEM opinion there.
<v ->Just one comment on this.</v>
I think one of the missing ingredients...
I won't say it's missing,
but the ingredient that we need to use more of
is systems thinking.
I'm not saying systems engineering purposely
because it's not just engineers
that need to come to the table on this.
It's the design element of this.
It's the AHMI, it's the psychological side.
It's everything that we need to think about from day one
when you start to put pen to paper
on a new concept or design.
How are we thinking of this through a systems lens
all the way through those over the air updates
that are gonna happen for the next now, what, 20 years?
<v ->I would add to the systems</v>
thinking that's a platform thinking.
No OEM just has one vehicle.
Or even if they just have one now,
they will have an aspiration.
And in reality, a lot of OEMs and a lot of engineers,
we love to design for the top.
And you design for the top and you put all this stuff in,
and it's really hard to take out.
And sometimes you need to design for the lowest entry level
where you can then stack in these options
to get that cost control model.
Sometimes you need to design
for that highest availability somewhere in the middle.
But very rarely do the engineer left alone get it right.
And then similarly,
if we've got four or five different models,
think of it as an A through E class,
whatever you want to think about in these different domains,
how do you design a platform
that's scalable across these different sized vehicles
with similar experiences that go across that.
It's not as easy as we think.
<v ->If I could add.</v>
You know, one of the things that we think about is,
obviously, the infotainment piece, right?
That's what we're really focused on.
And so to your point, right,
there's all these different levels of vehicles
and different customers in those vehicles.
And so when we think about,
I'm gonna use buzzwords, right?
Large language models and generative AI,
that that will meet the customers where they are, right,
to be able to have that very conversational
interaction with the technology.
So, you know, for us,
it's like being able to implement that at different levels,
you know, whether it's on the edge or in the cloud.
To be able to do that for those different customers
and for those different OEMs customized
to their vehicles, it's really important.
And the reason it's so important
is when I think back to the end customer, right?
We're always working backwards from the actual customer
that's in the vehicle, the driver and the passenger.
And by adding this kind of technology into the vehicles,
they're able to have a more conversational interaction
with their technology.
So, when you think about,
I'll just give a couple
of examples, but you think about,
you know, today some of the challenges that we've had,
a lot of times, it's a little bit hard
to talk to that voice assistant.
And using generative AI and large language models,
now that technology can handle the fumbles
that we make when we speak,
the pauses that we take when we speak,
the colloquial language, right?
And it can be this very conversational natural interaction.
It also can take things to the next level
in terms of personalization and proactivity.
It can also help when you have multiple intents,
you know, so right now,
sometimes you have to do one step at a time.
So I'll just quickly take navigation as an example.
If you are navigating somewhere
and you realize, "Oh, I need to stop and get gas,"
you have to ask just for gas.
But with generative AI and large language models,
you can take that experience
for that more sophisticated customer to the next level.
So you can say, "Oh, I'm looking for gas
on my route that's cheap,
and, oh, I need a car wash and has a car wash."
And that technology can handle all of those things
and then give the customers those options.
And then finally, I would say that it also,
this kind of technology helps
so that rather than the end customer
having this sort of very transactional experience
with the technology,
it can be more like a true companion
where the technology can actually take action
on behalf of the customer.
And those are the kinds of things
that people across the board wanna see.
You know, whether it's that high level vehicle
with all of the bells and whistles in it
or an entry level model.
<v ->The really interesting thing,</v>
and it kind of comes back to my comments
at the start of, like, 20 years of CES,
if we think of these vehicles,
we sat here at the start of 2025.
We might launch some of these things in '25, '26, '27.
Might build them in our plants till 2030.
And we might have to maintain them till 2045.
So this is really like a generational maintenance headache
that we're talking about if we don't get it right.
And it almost comes onto the next question, Parrish.
It's like many of the OEMs we're integrating our systems
in multiple countries.
We're selling into many more.
It's not just a US-centric.
It's not a Nevada-centric,
it's not a US-centric,
it's not an America-centric.
It's like this worldwide, 184 markets in Ford's case.
How do we even contemplate engineering these experiences
and all of this underpinning stuff?
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->Digital stuff.</v>
<v ->I think you guys have laid out a pretty good framework</v>
in that last discussion
and, you know, more or less the enablers
and creating the sandbox for experimentation
and things like that.
I think when you extend it across the globe,
let's talk about kind of that regional lens
and what we're dealing with, right?
So, maybe cultural and regulatory rules and mandates, right?
Maybe popular regional services along with the specialists
that are really experts in that field, right?
And sometimes that's even a regional partnership.
It's obviously language, communication.
Most importantly, I think it's a lot of the nuances
of the cultural dynamics,
sociocultural dynamic of where you're going as well
and being able to capture that
and reflect that back into the experience
of your standardized platform, your scalable capabilities,
your decoupled hardware and software, those kind of things.
I think...
So I use the word maturity a lot,
whether it's around process or it's around the tools.
A lot of these things can be embedded
into the tools these days and rendered dynamically
and built and even virtualized.
We talked about org mindset
and kind of a maturity of a software,
architecture and platform.
I think we've talked about standardization
and middleware abstraction and data cloud strategy
and all these things that, again, are enablers.
Cross-industry collaboration,
I think, particularly with hyperscalers
and SOC providers and everybody else that's working across,
I think, analogous industries
and everything else happening elsewhere
that can be translated into a region
that might actually be stronger in one thing
and not as strong in automotive, but a lot to learn.
And lastly, and most important to me,
is kind of that cultural and regional maturity.
So, are you entering a new market?
Are you supporting a multitude
of regulatory structures across markets?
Are you managing customer data,
autonomous driving and safety issues, right?
Cultural understanding, data residency,
all these rules and regulations.
And now it's a mountain, right?
Nothing we're discussing here today is not complex, right?
But, yeah, I think that onboard/offboard capability APIs
have been talked about a lot,
you know, including both on onboard and offboard components,
microservices encapsulated in the API
and being flexible with those.
So, you know, but again, I think the experience roadmap.
I work with a lot of anthropologists that go into regions
and really deeply understand,
you know, what matters to these people
and, you know, what's the difference?
Like, what is luxury defined in four different places
and how does that manifest
into four different stories in giant regions?
So, those kind of things, I think, are really important.
<v ->Has it changed with the more prevalence</v>
of these global consumer electronics experiences?
<v ->I don't think it has.</v>
I think it's just amplified.
But I think the route was always there.
A lot of us come from, you know,
the software and computer hardware world
and computer software world,
and then even telecommunications.
And to me in telecommunications,
you were always testing and you were releasing,
you know, at Motorola, a Ming phone in China,
and we learned quite a bit
or a handful of feature phones in Korea.
But you knew what socializing meant,
you knew what assistance meant,
you know what connecting meant, those kind of things.
And it hasn't changed.
That hasn't changed.
But sure, everything else is amplified,
all these capabilities.
I don't necessarily think that consumer expectations
are changing that much.
It's just we come to CES and we somehow hear about
these new domains of enablement
that are brought on by the maturity
of all the things we're talking about, right?
I love the last conversation
around the habitat on wheels, right,
and stationary moments and these kind of things.
So, yeah.
<v ->Fantastic.</v>
Tim, did you wanna...
<v ->Yeah, I mean, I come back</v>
to actually the word you mentioned, Matt,
which is platform.
And I think it's not just platform at a vehicle level,
it's platform at electrical architecture level,
a software level, at a infotainment level.
<v ->Platforms all the way down.</v>
<v ->All the way down.</v>
And, you know, when you do that, and you do it right,
it's potentially does serve your global marketplace
if you do it right.
And it takes a lot more energy
and a lot more effort to plan it,
get those systems thinkers at the table
at the ash table that Parrish mentioned.
But if you do it,
you do it right and you take the time to do it,
it pays so many dividends down the road.
Right before Christmas,
we had just launched an EVPKI solution,
which is Electric Vehicle Public Key Infrastructure,
which is a cybersecurity platform for charging vehicles
that provides interoperability.
We had one OEM customer.
I can say it wasn't one of you.
It wasn't you.
But they said-
<v ->Wasn't me.</v>
<v ->Outside of somebody cutting the copper off</v>
and stealing the connector in a cord,
this will solve roughly 40% of our-
<v ->Look at what we've-</v>
<v ->Challenges in the last 18 months</v>
with the Next Connector
and the charging infrastructure.
Which is another example of an experience
that interacted with the digital domain,
that interacted with the physical domain,
that interacted with the cloud
that brings all of these together.
So, we can do it.
<v ->And to your point, it's not just,</v>
"Oh, we're gonna change the connector,
and everything works out now."
<v ->It's not in law so we can improve it with time.</v>
<v ->Yes.</v>
It's all these things coming together at a platform level.
Arianne, can we go to you
and then we're gonna go to the last question if we can.
<v ->I think everybody did a great job on this one.</v>
Yeah, yeah, let's do the last question.
<v ->So this is my attempt,</v>
my final attempt to think about the future experiences.
I don't know whether it's gonna work or not,
but what are you as an individual,
maybe you are not representing your company,
most excited to see in the next few years?
<v ->I love this question because as a technologist,</v>
I could be talking about generative AI,
all of these other technologies
that are really revolutionizing all of these things.
But what I'm most excited to see
is the absolutely imperative cultural mindset shift
in the automotive industry.
Not to age myself here,
but I've been in automotive 20 years.
I started with like 8-bit microcontrollers
where we're counting the bits in RAM
so we could squeeze this edge of technology
that was lend into an 8-bit microcontroller, right?
The cultural mindset shift necessary for the industry
being in this high performance tech world
and having started microcontrollers at Motorola
a couple decades ago,
culture eats strategy for breakfast, right?
So we all truly need to start
at the human-centric experiences for the future
to future-proof.
And therefore, all of a sudden,
this silo mentality of, "This is mine
and this is protective,
and this is what's gonna preserve my empire
and longevity and my career,"
is no longer the best approach.
Right?
Now, all of a sudden, it's like,
"Hey, what is truly the most innovative
differentiated value I can bring to the table,
and where do, you know, stay in my wheelhouse
and focus on the value that we can bring?"
So back to how Intel works with the open compute,
open approach and things
is the only way to deliver innovation at scale.
<v ->Tim, one minute.</v>
Same question.
<v ->You know, seeing things come to life.</v>
And by that, go back 10 years and look at technology.
I'll give a quick example.
Think of your vehicle.
You're lucky if you had an 8-inch display
in your vehicle 10 years ago.
And walk the show floor now.
You know, pillar to pillar displays,
portrait, landscape, letterscape,
whatever size you wanna call,
which then drives different HMIs,
drives different processing power,
different chips, different experiences.
So you have to, all of us in this room, fight the fight.
Fight for those technologies.
Fight to get them pushed forward.
Fight inside of your company to get 'em approved.
It's always a challenge because it's new and it's different,
but that's what makes CES CES.
<v ->I think I'm gonna stick with the mindset change</v>
and even process and organizational structure
and the way decisions are made
and things that we've talked about already.
Removing the wrinkles of the experience
and getting things better and better.
We hear a lot of complaints.
You know, I think about using streaming services
in my hotel room and trying to configure that.
It feels like,
okay, that was the automotive service infrastructure,
not, you know, a couple years ago.
And I think there's gonna be this acceleration.
Again, coming to CES year after year, I think the stack is,
and I'll say it's vertical,
it's hardware and software shifting,
and it's cloud, and it's AI,
and it's just continuously maturing.
But then longitudinally, you know, we've got the product.
It's connected, it's smart and it's connected.
It's part of a system.
It's part of a system of systems.
And what does that mean and how are companies gonna play
and what are they gonna choose to be known for
and what experience roadmaps
are they gonna create and bring to life
that makes them unique in incredibly variable,
flexible, platform-oriented, software-driven world?
<v ->Arianne.</v>
<v ->Last word.</v>
So I'm actually excited about two things.
One is, you know, all this collaboration
that we've been talking about really helps us as an industry
bring experiences to customers faster, right?
Shortens the time to market.
So I'm super excited about that.
We're seeing it in action now,
and I think it's just gonna accelerate in the future.
The other thing I'm really excited about
is when I think about, you know,
we're very focused on the voice assistant,
the intelligent personal assistant experience.
And by bringing these new technologies to bear,
we're actually starting to be able to solve
some of the problems that we as an industry
have faced over the last decade.
So I mentioned earlier,
you know, being able to do things
like have a more conversational experience
with the voice assistant.
That's huge, right?
Not having dead ends when you ask a question.
That's a really big differentiator for the end customer.
Being able to have that seamless connectivity
between all of your digital content and services
that you have outside the car, inside the car,
and make it really easily accessible,
you know, again, is part of the experience
of the technology of the vehicle
as opposed to just an add-on.
And then I think maybe, you know, lastly,
I would say in terms of that customer experience,
you know, making sure that that technology
understands the context that you're in a vehicle.
Understands what's going on with the vehicle
can help the customer with that.
Understand what's going on in the real world
so that the customer
can actually interact with that technology,
get the content, the, the services,
the productivity that they want,
all in a way that does not distract
from the driving experience.
And I just, I'm really excited to see
how this goes and how we solve these things
with the new technologies.
<v ->Completely.</v>
And I think everybody in the audience
knows that question's unfair.
If you're expecting anybody up here,
I don't believe any of us are billionaires at this point.
Nope.
To predict, like, what is the feature
we should be discussing in three months,
six months, 12 months time.
It's wrong.
What we've actually been discussing
is how we create the experiences
and how we figure out exactly what those are
and how those evolve in the future.
And it goes back to the start.
We know they're gonna iterate rapidly.
It's about the platforms, it's about the systems,
it's about the cloud stacks,
it's about the silicon,
about everything that comes together
to allow the one in a billion person
to bring those experiences that we want to see
to market far faster than before.
And if you sat in the audience,
and if you know what that next big thing, Facebook 2.0, is,
like, don't bother talking to us.
Go and build it.
Go and demonstrate it.
Come back and show it to the world.
Because we're in a race
with our own expectations in automotive.
And if we can collaborate through SAE, through COVESA,
through commercial relationships and partner companies,
and if we can make it easier to build,
we are gonna win our own race
and see the experiences we want.
So with that, I'd love everybody to thank the panel.
And hopefully we'll see you next year
and be able to talk about even more LLMs
and proof points to the experiences.
Thank you again.
Bye-bye.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
<v ->Thank you.