<v ->Okay, welcome everyone.</v>
My name is Tom Andriola.
I am the Chief Digital Officer at UC Irvine
in Southern California,
and I'll be your moderator for today.
First of all, I'd just like to recognize,
if any of you have families that are impacted
in Southern California,
we send our thoughts and prayers to you.
It's a really challenging time.
My family's not directly impacted,
but I've been talking to family members who are,
and you know, we just send our thoughts and prayers to them.
We've got a very interesting panel for you today.
And, you know, the name of this show should probably be
"AI Everywhere, Everything, All the Time"
'cause you couldn't walk through the hall
without seeing everyone talking about AI.
But if you get past the hype
and you really think about, you know,
what people are talking about
is we have been introduced to a exciting set of new tools
that are giving us the opportunity to rethink
how we do our work, which means we have
to think about the people who do that work
and what is their relationship to these tools.
And so, what we've put together today
is a really exciting panel for you to explore this,
where we're going to let them answer some questions
and then take some of your questions at the end
in terms of what does the future of work look like
in an era where we all have access to these tools
and an opportunity to rethink the work that we do
and the way that we interact with each other?
So that's what we're gonna explore today.
I would like to introduce our panelists real quick,
and in their answers they'll talk a little bit
about their backgrounds.
Claire Shapiro, Director of Innovation and Insights
and Strategy at Visa.
Loretta Li-Sevilla... Sevilla?
Sevilla, thank you.
Global Head of Future of Work at HP.
Julia Alexander, co-founder and Chief Product Officer
at Exec Online.
And Daniel Drellich, senior Vice President
of Business Partnering and head of HR at EMD Electronics.
Thank you all for being here with us today.
Okay, so we're gonna start you off with a little bit
of a softball question, and allow each of you to answer
from your own perspectives and industries,
which is, you know, what is AI's impact on the workforce
as you're seeing it today,
and how are you thinking about it in terms
of your role helping your organization navigate forward?
So, Claire, we'll start with you.
<v ->Sure, thanks, Tom.</v>
So, at Visa in our innovation space,
we're really looking at how to bring new technology
to create new value for our customers,
but also to improve processes
and just work better as a company, as a workforce.
So, in terms of the financial space,
there's a lot going on in AI.
We're seeing a lot in fraud, fraud mitigation.
It's estimated that there'll be $5 trillion
of financial fraud annually.
And anything we can do to continue
to be smarter about fraud, we are doing with AI.
We also are thinking about
how the commerce value chain is completely changing
with how people buy and purchase.
And that might mean us totally rethinking
how we support our customers, our issuers, our acquirers,
and our merchants, and internally how we work.
I mean, Visa, we have a lot of focus on our relationships
and a lot of clients,
and thinking about how we can better serve our clients
through sales channels with AI.
So, we're seeing a lot across the board, both internally
and how we work better, as well as externally.
<v ->Loretta, how about at HP?</v>
<v ->Yes, so, a significant transformation that's happening,</v>
both internal to HP of how do we take a look
at different types of roles and job functions.
There are certain types of roles
that might transform faster than others,
and then also what do we do externally
for our customers, to be prepared?
We think about use cases in three types of areas.
First is we see AI as being able
to eliminate non-productive work, right?
So if you think about those types of tasks
like writing meeting minutes, action items,
you know, being able to send transcripts out
and things like that.
Those are now things that can be done by AI,
so you can spend time to do things that have more value.
The second kind of category is around being able
to make those important tasks more efficient.
So, if you think about marketing and creative professionals,
that the amount of time... Time is money, right?
For them to create images, videos, music.
So that can be done much more effectively and efficiently.
And the third is around creating superpowers, right?
So things that never could've been done before.
So you think about live foreign language translation, right?
You know, I speak, sorry to say this,
but I only speak one language, English.
And so, for me to be able to communicate
with all the people around the world
is really significant, is a new superpower for me.
And something that is actually really exciting
is actually seeing how communication
and accessibility is coming to play too,
because there's some new software that actually translates
from American Sign Language to text, right?
And so, all of a sudden we see this kind of bridging
of the digital divide, which is super exciting.
<v ->Yeah, I saw an interesting, it was live transcription</v>
inside the glasses, in one of the booths that I saw today.
Julia, you've been involved in executive education
at Exec Online.
What are you seeing from the perspective that you have?
<v ->Great, thanks Tom, and hello everyone.</v>
It's really great to be back here at CES,
really one of my favorite ways to kick off a year.
I am the co-founder of Exec Online.
It's an online leadership development platform
that partners with the world's top business schools
and Fortune 500, Global 2000 organizations everywhere
to uplevel leadership, development and management.
And so, it's an exciting time.
On this stage last year, I had the privilege
of announcing a groundbreaking collaboration
between Exec online and Amazon Web Services,
AWS's generative AI innovation center.
And this year,
we're really thinking about how does this all work?
How does it all come together?
And we're really at this incredible liminal moment,
this sort of in-between space that I think makes
some of the juice of being alive really, really great.
And Exec Online data really shows that
on the more open opportunity perspective,
only 5% of organizations that we have surveyed
say that they have the skills and the workforce
that they will need for this next phase.
So there's a huge gap between where we are
and where we want to be,
even if it's not entirely clear
exactly where that's going to go.
On the other hand, when you survey the leaders
that go through the Exec Online platform,
the hundreds of thousands of leaders from these companies,
wonderful companies such as on this panel,
they will say that two thirds of them
are at least somewhat or totally burnt out.
And so, here we are with a gap where companies are saying
"We don't have the workforce we need,"
and yet a lot of employees are already
being pushed to the max.
And so, this is a really tremendous opportunity to use AI
to improve the employee experience, to reduce
some of that unnecessary work that's a burden on employees,
to personalize the employee experience
and to create more connectedness among people and teams,
while also preparing for the roles of the future
and the AI augmented workforce.
<v ->Daniel, how about at EMD Electronics?</v>
<v ->Sure.</v>
And to give kind of another field,
but I think it builds off a lot of what we're saying,
at EMD, what we do is we provide materials
and tools for the semiconductor industry.
So, when we talk about AI,
when we talk about advanced digital,
you need more and more complex semiconductor chips.
To do that, we need more of a technical workforce.
We need more people to be entering into the sciences
than we have today.
Currently today, we have a lot of issues with the challenge
of we don't have the people in the future to go there.
So what are we doing?
We're spending a lot of time on workforce development.
So, really focusing on that K to 12 group,
to say, "Hey, how do we get these people interested
and excited so they can be our future scientists?"
The other thing we're kind of understanding there is,
okay, maybe you're not gonna be a scientist,
but you need to understand how to use this technology
and how to work with it.
So, a bit of a tech or an AI literacy
that we're trying to promote there.
And I think that's a lot of what we're doing.
Inside, if you move now inside our company,
we're looking kind of, I would say,
on how we're augmenting our employees.
So in R&amp;D, how can some experiments be run
through digital tools?
If we look at manufacturing,
how are we using smart manufacturing
and digital twins to produce and improve processes
that before would've taken a lot longer?
So that's some of the ways we're using it at EMD.
<v ->Yeah, I want to get into this, you know...</v>
I want to get into this issue of, you know,
we all have workforces today and you know,
the stupid analogy I like to use,
it's like, you know, sometime well in the past,
the person who would dig the foundation for your house
showed up with people, shovels, and a wheelbarrow.
And then one day someone showed up with a backhoe
and said, "You know, I'm gonna do it in one tenth the time
and at one tenth the cost with this new tool."
And, you know, and then everyone else says, like,
"How do I get into this new economy?"
Right?
So, we all have this challenge,
and Daniel, you just alluded to it,
so I'm gonna ask you to expand on your answer.
You know, how are you thinking about the reskilling
and how are you thinking about the change management?
And again, you can blend the two
or you can separate the two.
How are you thinking about the change management
of getting people to jump into the new world
that's starting to define itself?
<v ->It's a great question and it's an important one.</v>
What I would start with is
you've gotta meet your employee base where they are.
Because if you don't meet with them where they are,
you're gonna lose them
and you're not gonna bring them along.
And, like, for a company like ours, it would be a lot harder
to hire 60,000 new people than it would be to reskill them.
So this is what we need to do.
So what you're looking at is you're tracking a bit,
and you've got one piece where you'd almost call it
like a cultural initiative, where you're getting people
to hear the success stories.
You're setting up networks through different technology
where people can connect depending on what level they're at.
Then you have, you know, I think as most people do nowadays,
some form of ChatGPT or GPT technology
that the general population can use for their daily work.
Now we have a group we call our translators.
So they're people who would be, like, say content experts
and they'll spend, like, say six weeks or a month
with the digital team, gain skills,
go back to their area and be ones who could help with,
"Okay, here's what we need to develop, here's how we do it."
So it's not everyone who has to have that depth,
but they have to have the understanding to use the tools.
And then obviously, of course we have the more traditional
digital and AI type experts.
<v ->Yeah, so, I think that's a great point</v>
about being able to meet people where they are,
because it's going to be important
to have your workforce with you.
So as you think about mapping your talent
and figuring out what their pain points are
every day, right?
And so, encourage kind of experimentation.
The other thing too, I'd say
is that it's not just about scaling on hard skills,
it's also the soft skills, the power skills,
because things are rapidly changing.
And so, being able to have the critical thinking,
being able to work in an adaptive environment,
being able to learn, right?
Because there's some, like, my kids are in college
and what they learned in freshman year is obsolete
by senior year.
And then now it's increasingly what they learn in,
you know, in fall quarter is obsolete by summer.
So, this whole area of how to encourage people
to adapt and learn,
I think is really important in the reskilling too.
<v ->Others, in terms of how they're seeing organizations,</v>
have success with this.
I see, Julia, I see you want to jump in.
<v ->I really agree with everything that you just said</v>
and that organizations and individuals who will reskill
and learn faster than the pace of change
are the individuals and teams and organizations
that will succeed.
We're all headed on this path together
and I think if we're being really honest,
no one is a hundred percent sure where we're gonna land,
but it's exciting.
That means really building in the competencies
to be agile, to intake information, to identify the types
of AI champions within your organization
that are already enthusiastic,
that you can continue to create a platform for
and empower through this journey
are gonna be really critical.
There is one area of the reskilling,
and that's certainly what I do in my work
as well as as an innovation advisor,
that I think we're not talking enough about,
and it's somewhat of a precursor to reskilling.
A lot of times organizations will just jump right in
and say, "Okay, we need to reskill,
we're gonna do a big reskill initiative
and we're gonna spend a lot of budget."
And you know, it's great for those of us
on the receiving end of that.
But the thing is is before this is a precursor,
which I would consider to be reclassification of a role
and really defining what a role will look like,
or a set of roles, before and after an AI
implementation and augmentation.
So as an example, a basic customer service example,
if you're an experienced customer service manager,
you might have a team about five to ten
customer service agents.
Your day to day is scheduling shifts for them,
providing performance feedback, doing quality control
and overall kind of administrative management
during the day.
And your team members are, you know, doing the inquiries
and you also receive probably some escalation calls
and that sort of thing.
That's kind of what you do.
And they're doing the front end work.
That's in the pre-AI, the current world.
After AI in a situation like this,
a customer experience leader
won't really be doing any of those things.
The performance management can be done by the AI,
the inquiries, the escalation management can definitely
be done by the AI, and the vast majority of tier one
and increasingly tier two and tier three support
probably will be done by the AI at the end of this year,
if not sooner.
So what does that mean?
What is your role now?
Your title is still Customer Experience Manager.
There needs to be a mapping
of what that will look like in the future.
Instead, you're gonna be spending more time
analyzing workflows.
You're gonna be redesigning the workflows of your team,
you're gonna be looking at data, you're gonna be working
and training and fine tuning the very model that is going
to be essentially a teammate for you.
The AI will not be a model
that is a one input and one output.
It's gonna be the collaborator so you can provide
better service to your team and to your people.
It's a fundamental rethinking of a role.
And so, it's interesting 'cause when we say something like,
have you ever heard the statement, you know,
"Your job won't be replaced by AI,
a human augmented version."
This is what we're really talking about
in the nuts and bolts kind of way.
And so, when reskilling comes into that moment,
if you don't have the sort of skills that allow you
to interact with an AI and fine tune a model
and do flows, you have a real gap to fill.
And that's an opportunity for organizations.
If you're an AI champion, maybe you were already ahead
of the curve and you've been studying for two years,
you can jump right into that role and be first in line,
but everyone else is gonna need a little bit of help.
And I think kind of getting to the nuts and bolts of it
as leaders here about how you plan to do that
in your organizations is something
that if you're not already doing it,
I really would encourage you to begin
to think pretty clearly about
how you want to make that transformation.
<v ->Yeah, I was gonna say,</v>
AI is gonna impact these roles so differently.
It's hard to know how exactly for each of these,
you know, whether you're very senior, very junior,
your role within a company,
it may augment and supercharge your workflow.
You may have to totally rethink what you're doing day to day
and maybe it will require more skills.
I think what's important is having a baseline
of AI literacy that you're working with your company
to kind of champion for.
And I completely agree with leaning in
to those early adopters and those folks that are
taking this new technology and running with it.
My background is in research and behavioral insights
and I always find that I learn the most from seeing
what people are doing when they're kind of learning
how to work the system themselves
and creating little workflows on their own
and kind of sharing about what the technology can do
for them rather than more of, like,
a top down type of approach.
Like, here's the AI, figure it out.
So, I always find that working with those kind
of early adopters and really sitting alongside them
and showing what that technology can do
with those exact use cases will be really helpful
on top of that baseline of literacy
that we'll have to kind of work with our companies.
<v ->Yeah, so, I mean, if you think about what a university is,</v>
it's a really interesting organization, right?
'Cause we're like any other organization, you know,
we have our people who will say "Over my dead body,
anything new, no matter what it is, I'm against it."
And then we have these things called students
who are on the front lines
and doing stuff that is way outside the box of anything
that I would ever think of.
And so, you know, we created an environment where we just,
we gave people a playground and we said "Experiment."
You know, we gave them the playground and said "Go."
That's what helped us identify our innovators, right?
Our top 10% who took us.
And then we tried to, you know, get people to move in
and see what the innovators were doing,
see that the water was safe before they would jump in.
You know, but I even have been looking back at my language
and how it's changed.
It's like, you gotta start to engage with these tools
to understand what they're capable of
is kind of how I started with people.
It's like, just play with it to understand
how you could hack some of your own personal productivity.
Now I tell people it's like you gotta build
a personal relationship with these tools.
Because that's what it's gonna be,
it's gonna be an augmentation
and someone you're gonna rely on.
And I have certain topics that I have been conversing
with my AI agent for more than four months on now.
And I see it as a colleague, and guess what,
it's got a heck of a better memory than I have
when we come back to a conversation,
which is a really interesting thing to think about.
Loretta?
<v ->Yeah, and one other comment too about this is that</v>
because we had done some research that showed that
those that use AI, these early adopters
have 11 points more healthy relationship
with work than those who do not.
So there is an opportunity to experiment
and then bring the rest of the workforce in.
But an important piece of it,
you had mentioned change management is
how do you manage change?
Because to make sure that you bring the broader workforce,
not just the early adopters through.
And this is where leadership comes into play
and the role of leadership has actually changed
the past number of years.
So, rather than being supervisors, there's a whole...
Those that are most successful in leadership
are those that are empathetic, right?
And so leading their teams through change,
really understanding kind of the emotions of everything
that's happening, being able to connect their people
to other people.
So, this area of leadership and change management
is going to be a critical area for us to be successful.
<v ->Yeah, I'm kind of curious,</v>
given we have one of the co-founders of Exec Online here,
you think about how leadership has changed
to Loretta's point, EQ being more valuable...
You know, are you seeing leadership...
Are you seeing leadership differently in this age of AI?
Is it gonna evolve, are we gonna expect different things
from leaders, and is that what your clients are asking for?
<v ->It's such a good question.</v>
I think in some ways leadership is evergreen
in that leaders are expected and should inspire,
guide, and generate results for their organizations.
And that'll be the case pre and post-AI.
I think how we're going to do that,
as well as really what the definition
of a great leader will be, is gonna change quite a bit.
And we have to think as well
that our organizations themselves are changing.
Even if we think about an organizational chart,
it's almost somewhat of an old and almost outdated,
because so many organizations are so much more matrixed,
they're more global, they're more cross-functional,
they require coordination across many different areas,
so that when you think about leadership coming from the top,
of course it has to in that management
and C-suites are ultimately accountable.
But leadership can come from anywhere in an organization,
and especially at this time, being on the lookout for folks
that are naturally leaders,
even if they do not have the title,
is going to really help you generate the trust
that'll be required to get to the other side.
In terms of the future-ready workforce, you know,
there are three pillars that you might consider.
One is the ability to drive business model transformation.
That is the driving of customer results, operational results
and transformation that is expected of any business leader.
The second is the ability
to prioritize inclusion and diversity.
We've gotta bring everyone along on this journey
or it won't work.
So this is something that has to be at the root
of every part of your transformation, however you define it,
however you want to work it through your organization,
it needs to be in the fabric.
And being an empathetic leader, completely agree,
a purpose-driven, impact-oriented leader,
much more than a command and control leader,
especially the generations,
are the three pillars of the future-ready workforce
that, you know, I think we're hearing.
<v ->Others wanna jump in on this and talk about</v>
the different expectations of leadership going forward?
<v ->So, actually I would like to jump in a bit</v>
on this diversity topic, right?
Because I think when we talk about how AI
or new technology can help us, it democratizes a lot, right?
So in one aspect we're like, "Okay,
people who are neurodiverse
now are able to interact more than they did before."
People who are introverted may be more comfortable
with an avatar.
It's easy to get access to things,
but in the same times, a lot of these models
are based off a certain data set.
And if you have a number of creators
who are not representative of your customer set,
who are not representative of our workforce,
you actually might get significant errors
in the data, and then that may make you do mistakes
and make mistakes,
not only in your products but your workforce.
So this to us is something that's critical
when we talk about it and it's important to recognize
that this helps the full workforce.
And so it's not about...
It's not about setting a quota or anything like that,
but it's really improving the technology.
So that was my point.
<v ->How are you tying AI,</v>
and again, I always like to mention
that AI is not just generative AI, ChatGPT,
but immersive experiences, which I know Daniel,
your organization has some representation here at.
I think about, you know, computer vision, ambient sound,
lots of different ways in which these new tools
are being introduced.
How are your organizations thinking about tying AI
to broader business transformation?
You mentioned business model transformation.
How are you tying the two together?
Or are you tying the two together yet?
Because I see that they're ultimately going
to become one and the same thing, right?
This is just the latest of tools.
But how are your organizations doing that?
Claire, how are you doing...
<v ->Yeah, I can share a little bit.</v>
So, we love to do hackathons,
we love to do lots of proofs of concepts.
One thing that, you know, I mentioned earlier that
I did quite a bit of work on is understanding
the commerce value chain and how that's shifting.
And when you think about how people are deciding
on even how to purchase, right?
Like, in the future, maybe an agent
is making that decision for you.
And so what does actually that decision making process
look like when it's not even you as a human
making that decision?
So, really thinking about, like,
what is the future going to look like
and how is the commerce value chain actually shifting?
We've had to do a lot of experimentation about, well,
in that kind of future, what is sort of
a commerce experience, a checkout experience,
what do our clients really need?
For us to make sure that we're ahead of the game
so that we can ensure that people are, you know,
paying and getting paid the best way that they can.
So we've done a lot of just experimenting
and doing a lot of kind of meeting with our clients
to see where they're going and what they're thinking about.
But I would say, like, experiment, test, learn, iterate.
That's what we've been doing.
<v ->Yeah, I think, you know, one of the things I've seen</v>
really change in the last six to nine months,
in terms of the conversations I've been having,
and I do a lot with industry partnerships,
I do a lot with workforce development because we're sending,
you know, 80,000-10,000 graduates a year into the workforce,
is let's say a year ago it was a lot about
what are the opportunities to take out the low-value work,
create efficiencies, maybe improve margins.
Now it's part of the growth agenda,
which is why every CEO is talking about this,
because it's not just an internal efficiencies place.
It's gotta be a part of maintaining our tight relationships
with customers, reshaping experiences, not letting people...
You know, or even expanding into new markets,
you know, by being different than
what the rest of the market is doing.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
I mean, we're all trying to expand
and generate the most value that we can.
And so, if you're thinking just about the low stakes,
you know, high efficiency use cases, that's great,
but that's not going to differentiate you, right?
Just having AI and doing that in a way that just makes
things more efficient, everyone's doing that now.
So you really do have to think about the growth case.
<v ->I love the whole media mentions charts that you look at.</v>
You can see the big change when you look at
the media mentions of any public company
and what they've been saying at their investor meetings.
Loretta?
<v ->Yeah, so I was gonna mention, at HP it's massively changed</v>
the approach that we drive solutions, right?
So, in the past,
customers would buy the PC,
then they would buy this software
and applications to run on top of it, right?
And it was kind of, you know,
it was more of, okay, you kind of build the solution.
Now, we're tightly integrated from what's happening
on the chip level, right?
And in co-engineering, across the chip,
across us the system, across the OS,
and then across the software vendors, right?
In the application.
And so, it's much more kind of vertically tight
in terms of creating kind of brand new breakthrough types
of experiences together.
<v ->We're gonna come out to your questions</v>
in just a couple of minutes,
but my last formal question for the group is,
someone shared with me maybe about six months ago
that, you know, part of what we're gonna go through here,
right, because this is, you know,
this is a general purpose technology moment, right?
Think the internet, think electricity.
And one of the big things that we're going to
struggle with at an individual level,
as an organizational level, is our relationship
with technology and the human technology interface
is going to evolve to the next version of what it should be.
Have your organizations started thinking about that,
grappling with it, understanding what
the long-term implications of it are?
Anybody?
<v ->So, I can jump in.</v>
I think to your point earlier on our products.
So we're involved in the AR/VR development.
I can't mention any customers, but we're involved there.
And if you think about it now,
you're able to have a conversation.
Not now, but at some point in time,
in the not too far future, you're gonna be able
to have a conversation, interact with someone
and then say, "Okay, I forgot about that conversation.
Let me archive it and get it back."
Or you're gonna say, you know,
"Hey, let's reverify what happened here."
And this is all happening through the screen.
A lot of other things could happen through the screen.
We're working with other companies to look at,
okay, from a brainwave standpoint
and using, like, headphones to be able to move objects
when you're looking at an ARV screen or another screen,
so it's no longer your hands that are doing it,
and these kind of things.
So two different elements where you can interact
with the digital world that we're not using as much today.
So we're definitely doubling down in those areas at EMD.
<v ->Really exciting.</v>
And from the learning perspective,
we think about something I'm really excited about
is multi-sensory experiences and immersive experiences.
In a lot of ways, digital learning has come a long way
in the 10 years since I, you know, co-founded Exec Online,
but it's still very early.
You know, most of digital learning that you see
really relies on basically just two of your senses,
your sight and your hearing primarily,
a little bit of touch sort of, but usually not.
A sense that is almost entirely absent
is your olfactory system, being able to smell your scent.
And if you think about human evolution,
the ability to smell and tell if this plant is a good plant
or if this way is the right way,
is really built in at our DNA to the core.
And we're not using this at all virtually
in the learning space.
And so I really am excited about some of the solutions
that are coming out that are going to be more related
to scent and smell that will help us learn faster.
We've gotta find a way to hack our own systems
so that we learn faster in this world, right?
We got a lot of great neurotech,
but don't forget some of the old fashioned stuff here,
the scent and the olfactory system.
Really excited for some cool tech that's gonna be coming out
to help us in the learning space for that.
<v ->Yeah, just a quick example on that.</v>
So I work with a snack food company
who is using AI to design the smell and the taste parameters
of the foods that they're putting on shelves
that you're seeing in your supermarket.
And who would've thought that would be a place
that AI would have impacted the design of a product?
So, to your point, there are five senses
and then we're gonna tap into the sixth sense,
which gets back to Daniel and picking up on brainwaves.
Loretta, how about at at HP?
<v ->And so, when we think about, you know,</v>
you're working with your computer every day, right?
The traditional inputs of keyboard/mouse
are going to evolve, right?
And also is gonna be dependent on
what people are most comfortable with,
but more kind of conversational AI, voice, gestures.
But it might be different for different types of people.
Also, what we'll see is contextual awareness, right?
So being able to, you know,
your PC will become your personal companion.
We have sensors on the PC, right?
And so can we use that, be able to learn your habits,
be able to help you be more effective, be able to predict
what you need and then become an agent for you
to execute tasks quickly, more effectively.
And then also to build kind of personalization.
I think you made up a point about personalization as well.
So, exciting times.
<v ->Great, we're looking at a lot of very interesting</v>
shopping experiences of the future,
how people purchase both in brick and mortar
and in digital channels.
I think I mentioned before, you know,
AI agents interacting and purchasing on your behalf,
but also just thinking about how people are interacting
with, say, ChatGPT to say,
"I am looking for this, I'd like to buy it,"
and buying it right within that flow,
within that experience, right?
Embedding that and just embedded finance in general
is just a major trend in our space.
And one more that I'll mention is biometrics.
I mean, biometrics, just different interfaces there
and obviously AI kind of powers everything under the hood
when you think about biometric experiences.
But also that's something that you really have to
meet people where they're at and really make sure
that you're building things that, you know,
it's not gonna be too scary for your consumer.
<v ->We have about seven minutes left.</v>
We'd like to take questions from you, the audience.
I'm not exactly sure, maybe we're gonna run a mic
to people, but what questions do you have from our audience?
I see a hand over here.
Do we have a way to get a mic to them?
I could also do it.
I could play game show host.
Yes sir.
<v Audience Member>Thank you.</v>
So, you've tapped on AI agents and I want to see now,
we're gonna see the AI agents evolving
into a different multiple stages,
but we're also gonna see that how software
and solution providers will look at the user as a client.
So how loyal the agent will be for his client
from a shopping negotiation point of view.
<v ->Sorry, the question is around loyalty of the agent?</v>
Yeah, it's a great call out.
Loyalty will look very different.
Marketing will look very different.
And this is where, you know, you really,
it kinda racks your brain about what the entire kind of
ecosystem and experience will be for that and consumer.
Yeah, that's a great question.
I do not have the silver bullet answer to that,
but I don't know if any other folks have thoughts.
<v ->I just have a thought, which is,</v>
you're asking a really important question
that I think about a lot, which is really who decides
what the AI will decide, right?
And how much, not only governance, governance is sort of
the word, but really just the day-to-day,
where is this effectively influence and power going to sit?
So, right now, a lot of the decisions about
who decides things sit in some cases in HR,
when you're talking about roles,
they certainly sit with general managers.
You know, if these were human agents, they'd be sitting
with the GM of shopping or what have you, right?
But now a lot of this is definitely going
to come from our more technical teams, from the IT teams.
That has a lot of questions
about whether that's the right place.
Should it be now a cross-functional transformation team
that has cross-functional representation?
I think there's a lot of promise to that.
Some people think it's too slow, you know,
"We don't have time for cross-functional team,
we just want to get going."
So you know, exactly how these agents are gonna be empowered
to behave beyond the principles is a really, I think,
important question about how comfortable we are
as organization about the decision making authority
that we're going to be able to delegate.
The decision making authority is already there,
you know that, it's going to even accelerate exponentially,
and our own human personal comfort as well as the governance
and management structures that we will put in
are going to really determine how this rolls out.
<v ->I predict by the second half of 2025,</v>
we'll hear our first example of A/B testing within an agent.
Just a matter of time.
I see we have our next question here.
<v Audience Member>Yeah, hi.</v>
So I wanna make sure I understood.
I heard, I think the lady in the middle mentioned
that we're gonna have agents that, on your laptop
or what have you, that will learn your habits
and can help you optimize.
So, it sounds great.
And then I had this thought, so how do you do
performance reviews if we're all... (laughs)
At that point, if we're being fully optimized,
then just wanna have your thought about performance reviews.
<v ->Yeah, and so, one thing also that's important</v>
is privacy, right?
And so it's a... Whatever information has to be
kind of local and secure, and also as we think about
the balance of the person versus the agent
and the performance reviews, right?
It's going to be about how effective that you
as the human is performing, right?
The agent's not gonna get a performance review, but you are.
And so, if the agents are actually helping you
to be more effective and efficient,
and also it has to be private, which is why there's shifts
to, you know, there's cloud versus local AI.
And so, it's a balance.
So we see kind of a shift to hybrid that you wanna keep
things that are private and local on your PC,
and then there are some applications that make sense
that are going to be, you know, on the cloud.
But how that combination...
If it can make you be more effective in your role,
as you're working with HR and, you know,
going through these performance reviews,
it should actually show up as an improvement on you,
not... I mean, agents are not gonna be reviewed.
<v ->And just adding a different angle to that,</v>
I think the organization is gonna have
to rethink how it functions.
So what is performance, what is a performance review?
How do we even do performance management?
I mean, this is all gonna evolve
and be very, very different than it is today.
And we've already seen that in other areas,
but we're gonna see that exponentially more now
with these things.
So I think that's a really important point.
And for those of you in organization,
something to think about.
<v ->Performance reviews are one of the most disliked parts</v>
of employees' jobs, right?
No one really likes to give them,
they don't really like to receive them.
It's just a terrible part
of the employee experience right now.
We all can think of that time when you got
that performance review and your manager said that thing
and then you spent all day worrying "What did they mean?"
It's just a mess.
It's really not...
Most managers do not give good performance reviews.
So, I completely agree here and here that we need
to be really careful,
because if the agent reviews me, what does that mean?
Like, how do I take that?
Okay, there's so much going on here.
But I also want to say that in my opinion,
and this is my personal opinion, speaking as an individual,
I think that this could be an area where we can see a lot
of empowerment and actually help
the performance review process be something
that is a co-collaboration between you and your manager,
not the current more disempowering way we do it.
<v ->And also reducing bias.</v>
I mean, performance reviews,
there's so much bias in just qualitative reviews,
and that could be an excellent way
to just kind of level the playing field.
So I think about it as your AI is just your assistant,
everyone has an assistant now,
but you're still the human behind it,
and this is just making it more equitable across the board.
<v ->Real quick, one question, yep.</v>
<v Audience Member>Hi, thank you for all of this.</v>
It's been incredibly fascinating.
I'm a professor at University of Texas
and I'm currently working on how to incorporate AI
and emerging technology into curriculum
to prepare students for the job market.
I'm curious to know from your perspectives
how you see incoming new graduates perform in the workplace.
Are they already leveraging AI technology?
Do you find it to be something that is like, a massive
important thing that they walk in with skills in AI already?
Or are you planning on upskilling them as part
of their introduction to their particular job?
<v ->Yeah, I'll take it back from the university perspective.</v>
So, for the first time in this quarter, in our surveying
with industry, we are hearing that candidates who come
to a job interview or apply for a job that talk about
having exposure and and competency in these skills
become more attractive candidates.
First time we've heard that.
So I think this is a trend that's only gonna continue
that people are exposed.
So we've turned that back into that
we need to really build on literacy, you know,
for every student, you know, along the way
so that they have exposure to these tools,
they understand how to use them,
but also how understand how to use them properly, equitably,
ethically, right?
And in a way that enhances mankind or humankind, excuse me,
versus just willy-nilly, right?
We have that responsibility at a university.
So I think, you know, we have a lot of things
that we're doing to try to build in, you know,
how do we build first literacy, then competency,
and then for those that want to build true expertise in.
But we're, as you know, working at university,
it's a long way to get back to curricular reform,
but we gotta start the process somewhere.
Alright, with that, we're out of time for today.
Thank you so much.
Please join me in thanking our panelists.