<v ->First of all, good morning everyone.</v>
Welcome to the Lifestyle and Retail track.
I'm Janey Park
and I'm really excited to be moderating this panel today
with my lovely panelists.
And we are talking about something
that we're all very excited about, which is wearable tech,
as I like to call it, wearable fashion tech.
And we're going to be starting with a quick poll
from our audience that's here.
Who uses wearable tech?
Can you please raise your hands?
Okay, so majority of you are plugged in.
And how about smart watches?
Okay, we have many.
And lastly, how about smart rings?
Okay, so a little bit less,
but people are plugged into wearable tech, which is great.
So it's really amazing,
obviously to see how wearable tech
has become a integral part of our lives
and it's a transformative part of our industry.
And what I wanna get into is,
first, let me just introduce myself,
probably wondering what I'm doing here today.
So my name is Janey Park.
I'm a beauty fashion, a wearable tech strategist
with over 20 years of global experience,
including roles at brands like LVMH,
Macy's Lip and Cotton, Elizabeth Arden,
and 10 years in Asia.
And I've also led marketing
and growth at a digital fashion house.
Everything from NFTs, air filters,
and Metaverse initiatives.
And I'm also the founder of a media brand
called The Digital Runway,
focusing on beauty, fashion, tech, and AI
as an email newsletter that covers industry insights,
as well as a LinkedIn live podcast.
And it's my mission to bridge the gap
between innovation, style, and equity.
So without further ado,
let me just give you a quick agenda overview
in terms of what we are going over today.
I feel like I am leading a classroom as I'm doing this,
but just so you have an idea.
So we're gonna be going over
what these innovators are building, first of all,
in wearable tech.
And they're all doing some amazing, phenomenal things,
getting into how wearable tech is transforming fitness,
as well as daily lives, the challenges, opportunities,
as well as interoperability in wearable tech.
And finally, what the future holds
for this exciting industry.
So each panelist has been briefed,
so you have a maximum of three minutes.
You're gonna introduce yourselves, your company,
and what you're building in wearable tech.
So I'm gonna start from this side and go that way.
So we'll start with Drew Blackard.
You are the VP of Mobile Product Management at Samsung.
So without further ado, kick us off.
<v ->Hi guys, Drew Blackard,</v>
and as you mentioned, I'm responsible for product management
for mobile devices within the US market.
And so our mobile devices include our smartphones,
smart watches, tablets, PCs,
and new wearable devices like our ring products.
So overall, we're really trying to bring together
an ecosystem of devices
and wearable tech is super exciting for us,
and super exciting for me also.
Just personally, I'm a runner.
I coach kids sports and things like that.
So wearable tech to me is a really exciting,
interesting area.
Today, I'm excited to talk about
not only the hardware products that we're doing
like watch and and ring,
but also the platform and services that pull that together.
So Samsung Health, for example, is a service that we have,
that's an enabling platform across our devices
that can bring actionable insights to users.
Then of course, one of the buzzwords of last year's CES
and this year's CES is AI.
And so how AI starts to take the data
that we're collecting on these wearable devices
and providing actionable insights to users.
So I think that's what we're excited to talk about today.
<v ->Amazing.</v>
And just 'cause I'm Korean American on a fun note.
How's your Korean, Drew? I'm putting you on the spot here.
<v ->It's not great.</v>
We go to Korea several times a year to work back
and forth with our teams in Seoul and Suwon
to make sure that we have the right products globally
and for the consumers here in the US market.
<v ->And how's the Suwon Galbi, which they're known for?</v>
<v ->Okay.</v>
<v ->Alright, so next we'll move on to Resh Sidhu</v>
She's the Global Director of Arcadia Creative Studio
at Snapchat coming with the fire fit today.
So Resh, please introduce yourself.
<v ->Hi everyone. Thanks Janey, appreciate it.</v>
So I lead augmented reality at Snapchat.
Team Arcadia is a team
that is focused on working with brands
to create first of a kind innovative AR experiences.
I'm so excited about this panel because in September, 2024,
and I know some of the panelists
received one of these awesome little devices.
So the sheer amount of excitement that I've had from people
as I've navigated CES,
because these are not consumer facing at the moment.
What I'm holding in my hands is Snapchat spectacles.
They are a developer version
of standalone augmented reality glasses.
We launched these with the focus to get these into the hands
of incredible developers like yourself,
and really leverage and tap into that community
that Snapchat has been very well known for.
Snapchat has over 850 million users
and 300 million of them
are using augmented reality on Snapchat every single day.
So we know that augmented reality is an incredible tool
to engage our community.
And one of the things
that's been very different about Snapchat
is that we've always been about bringing people together.
It was always about ephemeral messaging,
conversations with your friends, connecting, sharing,
and moments of joy.
And whether that be puppy dog ears
and vomiting rainbow filters.
It was always about bringing people together.
And we've taken those values,
and this is actually our fifth generation
of augmented reality glasses.
Because at Snapchat, we really truly believe
that technology can do better,
do better at bringing people together.
So the launch of these has really been about,
yes, the technology
and it's packed full of awesome technology,
it's standalone.
So no battery pack, no puck, it has AI,
it also has world understanding.
So it understands your world.
It has voice interaction and understanding.
But my favorite part is all of the experiences on here
are built for you to do with people.
It's about shared experiences.
And the first branded experiences
that we built on this was for Lego.
So everybody loves Lego.
I have two sons, they play with Lego all the time.
As an adult I play with Lego all the time.
And for a brand like Lego
is an incredibly interesting device
to be able to bring their vision of play
and togetherness.
And so now all of our panelists could pop one of these on
and build an incredible Lego creation together.
So it's really at the forefront of our computing vision
and how we believe that technology
can bring people together.
<v ->And we're really excited about that.</v>
We had a quick chat yesterday,
excited to dig into a little bit more about the community
and the creators later on during our panel.
Next, Anna, I'm gonna try to pronounce your name.
Anna Barnacka, CEO of MindMics, infrasonic earbuds.
<v ->Hello everyone. My name is Anna Barnacka,</v>
and I started MindMics about six years ago
and before that I was actually an astrophysicist.
And the way how it started was I was at Harvard,
very stressful place.
I needed to monitor my stress to not burn out very quickly.
So I thought, "Okay, since I can monitor black holes
billions of light years away,
why the robots are not accurate enough
to monitor what's happening inside my body
with the precision enough to actually we could act on it."
So this is how MindMics started.
MindMics technology is enabled in the earbuds.
So what we doing, we not using the optical light
that is in the wearables that is giving us heart rate
and other metrics.
We using sound waves.
Sound waves generated by our body.
So we think that we are quiet creatures.
We don't want to think about saying something loud.
But actually our body's extremely loud
to the point that the brain
has to filter out everything below 20 hertz.
Because if it didn't,
it would be just cacophony of the sound.
One of the loudest organs in our body, the heart.
It's a huge pump
that is pumping liters of blood every minute.
And we can hear it, not hearing directly with our ears,
but we can hear it using the microphones in the earbud.
When I was starting the journey a few years ago,
fancy earbuds had only speakers inside
and the cables,
and that was $300, the best tech ever.
Today when you're looking at the earbuds,
they are already full of sensors.
For our application
when you think about what's in the earbud,
there is noise cancellation.
Noise cancellation require a microphone
that is facing the ear canal.
So we can actually repurpose those microphones
to listen to every heartbeat.
I don't know if you had a chance to play our videos.
But there is something in the video
that the world hasn't seen yet
'cause we just submitted it to Nature Cardiovascular Health.
'Cause everyone was asking us
where the signal is coming from.
Are those heartbeats just some arteries is close to the ear?
In that paper we showing that no,
it's coming directly through the aorta.
So as astrophysicist, I'm quite excited
because when you think about Star Trek
and the way how they monitored health was,
you had that device that was scanning everything
that was happening in the body.
And that's exactly what MindMics does.
What we see with MindMics, those heartbeats,
those sound waves,
those vibrations that travel to the ear canal,
they create those tiny, tiny sound waves
that we can pick up using microphones.
And in the next view,
you will see one of the comparison
across different medical devices.
At the top you see the blood flow through the aorta
with echocardiogram.
On the second plot,
you see directly the blood pressure in the aorta
and different paravascular system.
The yellow one, the middle canal,
this is what we see through the ear.
It's highly correlated with exactly of the signals
that today we have to put
the very invasive probes
<v ->Yeah.</v>
to see those signals.
So this is really exciting,
because wearables that we used to listen to music
will be able to provide us something,
that whole picture of our, especially cardiovascular health.
<v ->Yeah, I mean I love what you're building.</v>
It's really problem solving tech.
And next we will get to Alex,
who is the co-founder and CEO of XRWorkout.
So please, give us your introduction.
<v ->Thank you. Thank you.</v>
And I consider myself a poster boy for wearables
because I have an Oura, a smartwatch,
a WHOOP on the ankle.
I don't leave home without the air pods.
I've got the glasses and I have the headset as well.
The HMD.
So yeah.
<v ->And your old trip, Alex?</v>
<v ->Yeah. Yeah.</v>
When you think about wearables,
you don't really think about the VR headset as a wearable,
but it technically is glasses.
You feel like they're more wearables.
But what my company is doing is an exercise game
inside this paradigm of spatial computing.
And we are a technology pioneer in the intersection
of spatial computing, AI, and exercise and fitness.
We're undergoing a pitch with Snap
to build the ultimate AI assisted gym companion.
So if you imagine yourself walking into the gym,
you sign in.
Sorry, hands up who's been to a gym in the last month?
Okay, 60%.
So imagine this story.
You walk into your gym, you sign in,
and then there's a little rack of glasses like these,
eventually like these, but for now they're like that.
You pick them up, you put them on,
and it's like, "Hello Alex,
it's been three days since your last visit.
You ready for legs day?
All right, let's go, how you feeling?" Da da da. Okay.
And then it guides you over to the machine.
And as you're doing your legs day,
leg press, it's automatically counting your sets
and your reps and your weight,
so you don't have to log it anymore.
And then it'll tell you, "Two more. Just two more, come on."
It's in your ear with the coach.
And it will give you the progressive overloads
to make you stronger automatically
without having to log it manually
and figure it out yourself.
Could we just play
to speak to what we're doing our video?
Can we turn it up a bit, please? (laughing)
Thank you.
That's a burpee.
<v ->Alright, so-</v>
<v ->Okay, thank you, Alex.</v>
<v Alex>Pleasure.</v>
<v ->Alright, so we're just gonna get into the questions,</v>
just wanna be mindful of everyone's time here.
So we're gonna really dig into it.
I wanna get into a specific use case.
I wanna make this as beneficial
to everyone in the room as possible.
So my question is,
how are wearables transforming fitness today?
Please share one specific fitness related use case
that stands out.
And whoever wants to go first,
please go ahead.
Everyone is shy, then I'm gonna pick on Drew.
<v ->Yeah, I'll go first and I'll go with one.</v>
It's part of being prepared for exercise, which is sleep.
I think if you don't have a full night of restful sleep,
you're not ready to work out and engage in the next day.
And I think one of the things we're trying to do
with Samsung ring that's really powerful.
I wear both, to your question earlier,
I have a watch on and a ring on
and a lot of people are like, "Well, why do you wear both?"
And I think there's a few reasons why.
One's functional when they're working together
through our Samsung ecosystem
and connected with our smartphone.
You get better battery life.
And so the battery consumption,
it can decide which sensors to use and when.
But practically speaking,
I don't like to wear watches to sleep,
and you're sleeping a third of your life.
And so there's a huge window of your health,
data that you're not capturing when you're wearing watch
if you're sleeping at night.
And so it's been a really powerful way for me to understand
how I'm sleeping.
Because you're monitoring your, not only through the day,
but when you're sleeping,
it can correlate data, days that you exercise,
did you sleep better?
If you exercise too many days in a row, did you sleep worse?
If you're at CES
and you had a glass of wine the night before,
I run a little hot and don't sleep as well.
And so-
<v Janey>Everyone's laughing right now.</v>
<v ->Yeah, and so you can see these things</v>
and know these things.
And then again, through software and AI,
we're tying that into our platform
through a feature called Energy Score.
So you wake up in the morning
and you can see your energy score,
and you can determine,
"Am I ready for an intense workout today?
A light workout?"
It can guide you similar to the example we just saw
in terms of, you know, that Alex was talking about
of getting coached along the way.
It can coach you in your fitness and wellness journey.
<v ->Yeah, no, I love that.</v>
And I mean we had the example from Alex earlier,
from literally head to toe wearing everything.
So I love the fact-
<v ->Almost on the toe. I've got ankle right now.</v>
<v ->Sorry?</v>
<v ->Almost on the toe.</v>
<v ->Right now it's ankle.</v>
<v ->Okay.</v>
<v ->But I'll get something for the toe as well.</v>
<v ->We need NFC chip.</v>
<v ->We make small Samsung rings. You could do a toe ring.</v>
<v ->I'd like to take a shot at that question as well.</v>
<v ->Sure, go ahead.</v>
<v ->The thought which comes to mind</v>
is the Peter Drucker quote,
"What gets measured gets managed."
And so just like he had the question,
"Why you wearing both?"
For me, Oura and WHOOP,
I'm basically AB testing which one I prefer
and Oura is winning at the moment
just in my personal opinion.
But more in AI age, more data is better,
because you have more things to feed in and learn from.
So now I have two lenses,
three including the watch.
And then as the AI matures,
I'll be able to feed that in
and see how was I in 2024 versus 2025 and why,
and these kinds of things.
So I'm getting insights.
That's my little take on the question.
<v ->Yeah, I can definitely jump in with spectacles.</v>
I mean one of the things,
and Janey, you and I were talking about this yesterday
that we're tremendously excited about
with the spectacles is,
when we were developing these,
obviously, it's launched
with a number of different experiences on here.
There's a niantic experience with Paradot
where you have a virtual pet,
you could throw a Frisbee to it,
it goes and catches it, it comes back, wonderful.
There's drawing in the real world
and you can just create art as you go.
But the area that excited us most at Snapchat
was the fitness and wellbeing area,
because there's so much potential with this device.
And Alex is not wrong, this is just a developer version.
it's gonna get lighter,
the field of view is gonna get better,
it's gonna get faster,
it's gonna be equivalent to, Janey,
the glasses that you are wearing now.
And what we are already doing
and how we are already working with developers,
like Alex and brands,
is really thinking about what does fitness mean
for the spectacles?
And I've spent a lot of my career in digital
and immersive technology,
spent a lot of time in the VR space.
Originally at Frame Store and headed up their VR studio,
and was an early investor in the Kickstarter Oculus,
and have what I call my VR
and AR headset graveyard on my shelf.
So if you ever do a Zoom call with me,
you will see all of the headsets.
And all of them have been tremendously important
and fundamental in getting to where we are today,
even though many of them are obsolete.
But one of the things I look back on
is when we talk about VR,
often we thought VR would go mainstream.
And I even have one of the Samson headsets as well.
We thought VR would go mainstream.
We thought by now every one of you sitting here
would have a VR headset either in your bag,
and not too much unlike Alex,
but I think he's a very special use case.
Or they would be in our homes
and we would be using them often.
And I was a huge advocate for this technology,
and I remember being on stage
and talking about we're gonna see VR headsets
in every household and it didn't happen.
And the fundamental reason why it didn't happen is,
because no matter how good the technology is,
if there isn't a reason to reach out for that headset
or these glasses,
then people are not gonna use it.
And Snapchat's focus
is making the everyday things that you do, better.
So going to the gym, how can these enhance that?
Playing basketball,
how can we help you be better at what you do
and love every day?
And how can we help bring either a AI coach
or your friends into that story?
One of my favorite things on here
is a basketball experience.
So you go up to the hoop
because this has world understanding,
it knows that there's a basketball hoop right in front of me
and it guides me already to make my shots better.
Giving me feedback in real time,
super fun, super exciting.
And that's when everyday thing, like just shooting hoops,
shooting hoops with my son,
becomes something really exciting.
And then all of that data,
all of the things that you are doing are stored in here.
So at any given moment it's helping me be better
at the things that I love and the things that I do.
So I think the opportunity for fitness is huge.
We're seeing a number of our developers
already build fun fitness movement-like experiences.
One developer
within two days of getting their hands on this,
I don't know if you've seen this, Alex,
but they built this adorable RPG game.
And what they did is the everyday walk to their coffee shop,
they turned it into this fun little RPG game.
You popped on the spectacles,
you're literally walking down the street,
you have this like little sword and you're just hitting
and attacking all of the little things
that are coming at you.
And before you know it, you've done 1,000 steps.
It's play gamification, your everyday walks transformed.
And magical little dragons appear
or magical little orbs appear that you have to, you know?
How joyful is that?
It's magic in your hands.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
What devices have you put on at CES
that have put a smile on your face.
And that's so important for Snapchat.
So that's what we wanna see more of.
And that's why I think the fitness space is really exciting.
We're working with a number of brands
that they can't really talk about.
However, brands can really see the opportunity.
As I said, in the near future, you'll be able to buy these.
Right now, they're available for developers.
We have a number of these in the hands of developers
and we really want developers to use this.
This is launched with its own groundbreaking Snap OS system
and you can use Lens Studio to build on this.
Anything you build on spectacles,
you can also deploy on Snapchat too.
So we're really thinking about that ecosystem
that Drew was talking about as well,
building once and being able to put onto multiple devices.
So if there are any developers that are interested in this,
come see me afterwards,
and I'll let you know how you can sign up to the program.
<v ->Sounds good.</v>
I mean all of you covered so many interesting points.
And I think you have something to say,
so we'll have you to share on this point.
<v ->I will be quick.</v>
The use case I wanted to focus on is running.
I think in terms of the running,
wearables are transforming it,
because it really helps people
to look into what is the metabolic zone they're in.
So when you're thinking about the metrics like heart rate,
one of the best use cases is running,
but it has to be accurate,
and the demand of the consumer
is that they actually making sure that it's accurate enough.
So if they wear watches,
often they will also wear the ECG patch
and will compare the data.
So that's why it's so important that the data for running
are super accurate,
and that's one of the best actionable use case
for heart rate.
And I would say it's just the beginning of that revolution
in running,
because there are people looking for the devices
that they could wear easily,
that they don't like wearing patches and the brand,
some of them like wearing watches, usually they don't.
So this is another opportunity for ear,
I'm talking about this because every single company
is asking us when we going to have a heart rate
for running accurate enough in motion.
It's not an easy task, but we're working on it.
So stay tuned about this.
So one thing of one use case for running
is using the heart rate to looking at the metabolic zones.
And that's something
that people are using to match their steps.
The another use case that we seeing coming
and there is one really interesting startup
that is working on that.
That is matching the steps with the heart rate
and with the beats,
is able to coach people how to step
to make sure that they stepping in the right face
of the heartbeat.
So again, to maximize the cardiovascular system performance
of the heart
doesn't work against muscle squeezing and steps.
So it's really exciting how wearables
can transform further running,
and is already use case that exists
and people looking for other solutions.
<v ->Yeah, I mean all of you covered a lot of points</v>
and I feel like we could literally have
maybe a week long seminar
where each of you are speaking individually
and giving a TED talk and I wanna dig into everything,
but I wanna segue into a question
that I think is something that is interesting
and people are wondering about.
So we're talking about data,
we're talking about heart monitoring, sleep monitoring,
there's even problem solving
different types of wearable tech with helping,
for example, those who are hearing impaired
or visually impaired,
things of this nature.
So I'm wondering how do you all see the industry evolving
in terms of insurance companies?
Because part of mass adoption
is about getting coverage for this type of technology.
And it could be about your product
or how you see the industry at large.
So whoever is more comfortable to share about this.
I love to hear your thoughts on the future
when it comes to insurance coverage,
and what that looks like in terms of mass adoption.
Alex?
Well, I like to say this thing
about the future being precision, preventive, proactive,
and personalized.
Some of those words mean the same thing,
but it sounds good with all the Ps,
and I think that therefore the insurance companies
is gonna be very powerful for matching premiums
with individual health conditions.
Because now we will have the data,
we'll be tracking how much activity they're doing,
and then higher activity,
people will be rewarded with lower premiums
and that kind of thing.
So that's a quick thought that comes to mind there.
<v ->Yeah, and I think I can expand on that a little bit.</v>
And today obviously, I think,
it's ultimately where things will go.
And even today for consumers with Galaxy ring for example,
last year we got approval for FSA and HSA plans.
So people who have a health savings account
can actually apply that towards a ring product
to manage their lifestyle
and that becomes a cost effective way to do so.
And then on top of that, I think,
back to maybe some of the innovation and design,
wearables, of course, are perfect for that kind of thing
for an insurance company
to make sure that their base is living a healthier life
and can lower the premiums,
and therefore the cost to the consumer ultimately.
But if you think about the different form factors,
watches is really great for a lot of users,
but if you think about the breadth of users globally
and in America,
there's certain people in segments of population,
let's take elderly for example,
where a wearable is gonna be intimidating to use
and perhaps difficult to set up,
where a ring is actually very simple
in terms of the interface.
Literally all you have to do is put it on your finger
and then you can start monitoring yourself
and/or patients in that sense.
And so we think it's gonna be a really compelling way
to expand the reach of what wearables can do
to maybe a non-tech audience
that's used to engaging in technology first
and more complex use cases that wearables can deliver.
And having these simple designs like a ring
can allow us to unlock new users,
and ultimately that can work its way
into how people can manage their health,
and therefore build better lifestyle out of that.
<v ->Yeah, you hit so many points that I would love to dig into</v>
from the aging population to data analytics,
the insurance premiums, HSA, FSA.
There's so many opportunities to figure out
how to service the consumers and the community,
and also keep them essentially in your ecosystem as well
depending on what your brand is and what you're building.
Anna, just quick thoughts from yourself.
<v ->Very quickly.</v>
I consider myself outsider in that case
and I have a little bit less optimism
about the insurance companies covering it,
but I think
that the fact that the cost of the components of the sensors
and enabling those technology will go down,
and I think it's a part of our job
to make it affordable enough,
so people without health insurance can afford it
and pay for it
and have a control over the data.
Because if somebody else is paying for the data,
who owns the data then?
So I think for us it's important to make sure
that our technologies is affordable for everyone
with or without having insurance
because this will give us also control over the data.
And insurance companies, if they will pay for it.
I'm sure they will want to have some access
to the information which can go both ways.
So I'm curious to see where all of that will go.
But looking at the structure of the whole ecosystem
but also seeing how quickly
that the price point is dropping.
I think this is exciting
because we can build wearable technologies
that everyone can afford out of the pocket.
<v ->Yeah, you brought up great points</v>
and it's always good to have a counter opinion.
I love the spicy hot takes.
But I wanna get into something
a little bit more style and fashion focus.
So I actually just did some research
and dropped a report called the Digital Runway report,
was analyzing the 2025 trend forecast.
And I mentioned this earlier today during our session,
but I think that wearable tech
will actually be wearable fashion tech.
There was a piece of technology
that was dropped earlier in last year,
it was called Friend Necklace.
I'm totally calling them out on this, $99,
and it looks exactly like an Apple AirTag.
So if you are trying to build a tech accessory
that you want people to wear,
you need people from different industries,
especially from fashion design
who can create a product that actually looks good.
It tracks things regarding health and fitness,
but also that people would actually be excited to wear
on a daily basis.
So based on that, I'm just curious,
how does design aesthetics and style
contribute to your product development, marketing,
and mass adoption strategies?
And I see Alex already with your hand up.
Does that mean that you're ready to go?
<v ->Yep, ready to go.</v>
<v ->Okay. Alright.</v>
<v ->I think Meta has done a really good job</v>
with partnering with EssilorLuxottica.
I think that was one of the hacks that they did
for getting into the style game a bit more.
And there's been a big revamp in Meta
in terms of getting a little bit more aesthetic.
Zuckerberg has started wearing Amiri outfits
and stuff like that.
So there's been a big style push there,
and I think it's gonna be very important, as you said,
for mass adoption.
The challenge
is gonna be getting the full visual head glasses form factor
with the screen.
These just have cameras, so got the batteries in there.
They're okay.
These ones here, they're up 50% since the last edition.
The previous battery life was 30 minutes, now it's 45,
which is a good trend,
but it's gonna be hard to have that same level of bulkiness
and have a visual aesthetic.
<v ->Yeah, I mean just on that point,</v>
'cause I'm actually, if you guys didn't notice,
we're both wearing smart glasses
and recording each other from opposite ends.
I love this, Alex, for all of us by the way,
great content
and also opportunity to have a conversation about this.
But with Ray-Ban and also Meta,
what a lot of people don't realize
'cause I come from the beauty fashion retail industry,
that actually they partnered with EssilorLuxottica,
which is the majority stakeholder
and I would say producer when it comes to glasses.
They do glasses for Prada.
<v ->Monopolist.</v>
Yeah, Prada, Oakley, Ray-Ban.
So I mean it made sense for them to partner,
they could work with a fashion design company
that would actually produce the right sunglasses
and glasses,
and they could actually embed the tech with it,
which I think is something
that we'll see a lot more in the future.
Anna, thoughts on this?
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
We actually now started partnership with Mastermind Dynamic.
that builds beautiful design for a lot of brands.
There was actually one picture in the end of the video
showing the next MindMics inside Mastermind Dynamic.
And basically, for what we see,
what I've seen over the last six years,
six years ago, if you go back to Kickstarters
or even your memory to see what was launched,
what people were happy to wear
is very different to what people are using today.
MVP is that you have to from the scratch,
bring people amazing experience,
and I think people paying attention to it,
it's fashion, aesthetics is extremely important.
<v ->Yeah, and I can just add from the ring perspective,</v>
I mean, we had major engagements both in Paris
and New York last year at their fashion weeks.
And I think trying to make that to your point,
fashionable in an aesthetic way is important.
So just from the core designs,
we have multiple colors and finishes,
and so that you can tailor it
to what you're looking for in your style,
in addition to the functional aspects
that we've been talking about.
So that's critical in our wearables
and even our smartphones.
We've been doing fashion partnerships
for as long as I can remember with major brands
to try to bring either new accessories
or custom designs to the market.
I mean, ultimately, all these devices are lifestyle devices,
they're things we carry every day.
They represent who we are.
So it's important that they look
and feel comfortable with who we are.
<v ->Yeah, and I did actually go</v>
to the New York fashion week exhibit,
sorry, the installation that you had with,
I think, it was Colin Strod,
I can't remember the last name at the moment
if you remember.
But the AI exhibit was absolutely phenomenal
with all of your devices.
So definitely if you guys are in the audience,
make sure to check it out.
Resh, you are phenomenally dressed,
already fangirled over each other.
So I know you have a conversation
that we could go into very deep on this,
but quick thoughts on this.
<v ->Yeah, I think it's really interesting,</v>
it's very important to distinguish the beautiful glasses
that both of you are wearing at either end.
Those are cameras in there, they're just Ray-Bans,
and we've been able to put cameras
which allow you to record the real world
and everything that's happening.
These are very different.
This is augmented reality in the real world.
So this is placing a layer of AR in your real world.
It has world understanding and physics.
If I pop these on, it understands everyone on this stage,
every chair in this room and every human in this room.
It has world understanding and world learning AI
and machine learning capabilities packed into it.
For us, the most important thing at Snapchat,
it is always about form and function
and the beautiful marriage between the two.
Absolutely, we are moving towards a version
that will be consumer facing.
It will be slimmer, it will be faster,
and it will look super fly.
I was saying to Janey yesterday
that the amount of times that I've seen people at CES,
and they'd be like, "Hey, can I get a version but in blue.
Can I get leopard print?"
And I was like, "Sure."
And they're like, "Hey Resh, why don't you have a version
with leather on them?"
And what I say is, "All of that is coming.
All of that is coming."
Our teams have been working
with phenomenal product, fashion,
and everybody on this panel is not wrong.
You need to bring in different skill sets
from different industries
to make these something that people will want to wear
and be proud of wearing.
But the most important thing for us
was actually getting a version into the hands of developers
as quickly and as swiftly as possible.
Meta launched Orion, does anyone have Orion?
Do you have it? Do you have it, Alex?
How quickly did we get you one of these?
These are real and I am so excited to get my hands on Orion.
I have a pair of Ray-Bans.
Any of us in this space,
we should have an insatiable appetite
to look at all of these devices,
whether it be rings, watches, AR glasses, VR headsets,
because all of them help really us push the medium forward
and push the technology forward into a place where,
I think Drew hit it on the head, into a place
where we can make our everyday experiences better
and they're just part of every day.
They're not clunky.
So I'm excited in terms of how these are gonna look.
But in terms of this version right now,
developers can get their hands on it.
It's $99 on a subscription,
and we are using all of these incredible experiences
that developers are building,
and we're updating these weekly,
so you can begin to start seeing what's really good,
what really works,
and what's popular.
And that will really help inform then
the consumer facing version
and the launch experiences that we drop with.
<v ->I feel very sad 'cause we're coming up on time,</v>
and I'm wondering if I can go a little bit over,
and no one is giving me a look right now,
so,
<v ->Do it.</v>
I am going to just go for it.
So we'll do rapid fire very quickly, individual questions,
and then try to take one question from the audience
just 'cause I wanna make this as valuable
for all of you as possible.
Drew, we're gonna start with you.
If you guys can keep your answers
to a quick 30 seconds to one minute, that would be great.
Samsung's emphasis on user friendly design,
how do you balance cutting edge tech with simplicity,
and as you were mentioning, chic design for mass adoption?
<v ->Well, I think it's a matter</v>
of we don't have a single design for any single user.
Everyone's different.
And so from the most tech-oriented user,
we have products like foldable devices and things like that.
And for people looking to track their health,
we have amazing wearables,
and even within the wearable category,
we have these different types.
And so I think simplicity is incredibly important
when it comes to the user interface.
And so as users are able to adopt new technology,
having it be simple and easy is critical.
And I think one of the drivers for us over the past year
and going forward is our Galaxy AI platform.
And so AI is something that can create usability
for users effectively.
You don't have to know how to use the device as much
because the on-device intelligence
is able to service up meaningful insights for you.
It can push you forward.
So I think those are the things that we're thinking about
is how do we reduce points of friction,
make things easier for users.
And so regardless of the form factor where you're engaging
and trying to track your health,
whether it be glasses, a wearable, a ring,
that those things become easy, intuitive,
and you're guided along the way
with the data that you're providing.
<v ->Yeah, and I mean for anyone who hasn't tried Galaxy,</v>
I highly recommend, it's not actually text to prompt,
it's actually draw to prompt.
And I think that's just an amazing visual representation
of what the AI looks like.
So I'm just gonna go the line here, Resh one minute or less.
Snapchat platform built with a community,
as you mentioned earlier,
creator driven experiences
from content creators and developers.
How does SNAP cultivate a thriving
and engaged community of creators?
<v ->Yeah, I mean that's such a great question.</v>
It's so fundamental to Snap's values.
We've always been about our community,
putting our community first,
and part of the spectacles launch strategy
was really about bringing our community
into the conversation.
A lot of technology and a lot of these AI experiences,
I mean, I walked the convention center
and all of the technology,
and everything was all great,
but a lot of it is done in isolation
and not bringing normal human beings
and the community
that you are ultimately going to be selling to
into the development process.
We are doing that, we're opening up the doors,
we're bringing our community into them,
and the experience, the content, the spectacles,
it's thriving because of that.
We're learning what matters.
We're learning and we're taking that input,
and we're really being adaptive
and iterative in our process.
And so community driven,
co-created content is fundamentally important.
'Cause you have everything from indie developers
to larger studios building for it.
And what's really exciting,
we're looking at ways in which we can reward them
so they can be part of the process,
and then also reap from the benefits as well.
<v ->I love that.</v>
And I just wanna highlight a few things from what you said,
co-creation, gamification, and rewards,
so important to building a community
that I think you've really nailed there at Snapchat.
Anna, okay, so MindMics, realtime heart monitoring,
shaping the future of preventative health.
Is there anything that you could tease out
that you're exploring
and you're incredibly interested in
when it comes to MindMics in the future direction?
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
So I believe that the future of the preventive health
and human health in general is in the ear.
It's close to the brain, close to the lungs,
close to the heart.
We can monitor all of the key vital organs to us.
What's coming next with MindMics
that we are working on now is blood pressure.
So imagine accurate blood pressure monitoring
through the ear,
but there will be much, much more coming from us as well.
So keep watching what we up to.
<v ->Very cool.</v>
I'm very excited to see what MindMics come up with.
Alex, how do AI and hand tracking and XRWorkout
redefine home fitness compared to the traditional methods?
<v ->Okay, so what we're doing with our AI strategy,</v>
we have the ability through the headset
to capture a lot of data passively.
Normally, you have to log everything,
now the wearables are tracking passively,
but we've got movement data like XYZ planes.
So we are experimenting with form tracking.
We've got like camera based form tracking.
You sit your camera there looking at you
and it can figure out your body position
That's using AI.
Also, we're using like VR hardware trackers as well.
And so that there is creating a future
where we're gonna have an AI guided coach
gonna be telling you, "Keep your back straight,
put your butt out."
That kind of thing.
"Okay, that's a dangerous position there."
That kind of thing.
And then also on the coaching,
you too consistently be overloading yourself
so that you're getting stronger,
and that's a dream come true.
<v ->I'm very sad to say we are a little bit out of time</v>
and I'm getting this signal.
I love to have this chat with you,
each of you or all of you again, at another point.
Hopefully, we'll talk later
about having you join my podcast,
but I wanna just thank all of the incredible panelists.
Please connect with them,
watch for what they are working on now and what's to come.
This is literally only the beginning
when it comes to wearable tech,
or as I like to call it, wearable fashion tech.
And also to the audience, thank you for being here today,
and yeah, let's continue this conversation.
Feel free to connect with each
and every one after the session.
Thank you so much.