<v Elizabeth>Thank you all for joining us</v>
for the sessions this afternoon,
and one of our favorite topics at Parks Associates,
really talking about the home security space.
And we have a great session focused on
the trends and transformation.
But I don't think my clicker is working.
Maybe, oh, there we go.
Okay, so just a quick reminder.
We are hosting a networking reception this evening
at Treasure Island.
If you'd like to join us
in the Treasure Island Ballroom at 5:30.
And again, a huge shout out to our sponsors of the event.
Without their support,
we wouldn't be hosting Connections Summit.
This is our 19th year to partner with CTA
for this conference.
I'm Elizabeth Parks,
I'm the president and CMO of Parks Associates,
and I really welcome you to these sessions today
to understand more about what's happening
in the home security space.
Just a few things that we're gonna be talking about,
the reality of devices versus systems,
how the installation is being simplified
for security solutions
and the impact of artificial intelligence on the experience,
as well as where is the next stream of revenue.
So big topics that we're gonna focus on.
I'm gonna start here and just show a couple of slides,
so you all can see a little bit more
about the different players in the market
and the solutions that they're offering.
The market has expanded beyond just security systems,
and now we are looking at devices in play
with attached services.
We also have self-monitoring as a possibility,
there's paid security services without pro-monitoring,
and there's also the installation side of the business
with DIY and self-install.
Currently 32% of all households in the United States,
or about 40 million households are paying
for some kind of security service.
And if you were to break that up,
you'd see that's 25% are attached to a security system.
7% of these services attached to a security device.
And this is a pretty important point
that we'll be talking about.
As we move into 2025,
companies in the security solutions market
are really gonna be looking at different technologies
to enhance the offering across the board.
Interoperability becomes much more important
as consumers are looking to attach devices
to existing systems
and connect those different devices together
through a centralized controller.
We also see automation and routines
being in demand from consumers,
and obviously the big topic of AI and machine learning,
all of the data that is being captured
and ultimately looking for more and more RMR,
or recurring monthly revenue.
So today, we're gonna be talking about this.
We've got an amazing group here of speakers representing
really transformative companies in the industry
who some have been around for 150 years
and some of who are newer to the scene.
And so we're gonna start off with quick introductions
from each speaker and then get into our discussion.
So Tim, we'll start with you,
if you would please introduce yourself and Allegion.
<v Tim>Hi, everybody.</v>
Tim Eskew, I'm director of our residential
electronic product portfolio.
So I have responsibility for all of our smart lock products,
as well as all the systems that back them up,
our cloud platform, as well as our mobile app,
based in Indianapolis and have been with Allegion
just about three years now.
<v Elizabeth>Okay, thank you.</v>
Abe, welcome.
<v Abe>Sure. Abe Kenney,</v>
senior director of product management,
and I'm involved with all of our hardware
partner integrations as well as, you know,
little bits of security
and product strategy across the board.
So Alarm.com's a professional security software platform,
so we integrate, you know, devices from our partners.
I see many of you in the audience as well.
And then put it all together
for the professional security path.
You saw kind of Elizabeth lay out there.
So really excited to talk about
where we're headed in the future today.
<v Elizabeth>Great, thanks for being here, Abe.</v>
Leah, go ahead.
Oops, I think we're a little outta order here.
<v Leah>Hi everyone, I'm Leah Page.</v>
I'm senior vice president of product strategy
and innovation for ADT.
ADT, the security company.
You probably have seen the yard signs
in either your yard or your neighbors.
We've been around for about 150 years
offering residential security.
So nice to see everyone here.
<v Elizabeth>Great. Welcome, Leah.</v>
And Keith Puckett, thank you for joining us.
<v Keith>Thank you for having me.</v>
I am Keith Puckett, co-founder and CEO
of Ubiety Technologies, about five years, not 150.
But Ubiety, the brain behind what we've built
is an artificial intelligence engine that can sense,
categorize, and identify people
based on the devices they're carrying.
Really the emphasis there in security
is situational awareness and how to provide really
information to all stakeholders, right?
The homeowners, the monitoring partners, law enforcement,
and really give folks a true understanding
of what's happening in the home.
Folks that should be there and folks shouldn't be there.
Our aim is to identify them based on the RF signaling
off of their devices.
<v Elizabeth>Okay, great.</v>
So I wanna start the conversation
just talking about the changed landscape
and what we've seen over the past few years.
And so Tim, I'm gonna start here with you.
Can you characterize some of what you all were all seeing
in the industry as more and more devices
are coming into market for consumers in at home
versus the systems play?
<v ->Sure.</v>
Kind of when I was thinking about this question,
we were talking about it this last week in our pre-meeting.
I started out with my first smart home device
back about 15 years ago.
I had a really simple desire
to control my Christmas tree lights
during the holidays with a schedule,
so I didn't have to worry about turning it on
and turning it off.
That really put me on this journey
of different smart home devices.
And you know, with us now at Allegion or at Schlage
with our smart lock products,
one of the things that I think about with people
using our products is they're really solving
a need that they have with their home.
You know, for us, with, you know, the products that we make
that have Wi-Fi connectivity or other technologies,
like Z-Wave, we bring in the ability for people
to do very simple things like set up an access code
for their children to use when they come home from school
and not have to keep up with keys and things like that.
So making life easier for people
is really what I've seen help transform and grow the,
you know, smart device industry.
So people can use devices like our smart locks,
or security systems, doorbells, things like that,
all standalone get tremendous benefit from them.
But then, you know, as we talk about later in this session,
how we can then go a step beyond that
and integrate devices with other things
to create these even broader experiences.
But starting out really with a base experience
with just solving a particular need is where, you know,
most people start their smart home journey.
<v ->And so a lot of that really is focused</v>
on a point solution, right?
There's one thing it's doing versus an entire system
that may be doing a number of different things.
We do know that consumers, one of the top reasons
why they're buying a home security system
is to attach different devices to them
and then have a central controller along with the app.
So Keith, I wanna see if you can share a little bit
from your perspective of how the market has shifted here
over the past few years as we see more and more consumers
looking to individual devices for security,
but then also what's happening for the systems play.
<v ->Yeah, you know, when I think about security to us,</v>
we really wanted to provide software
that could be deployed on existing systems.
Originally that was the thinking,
how could we make an existing system smarter
with our software and then use
our artificial intelligence engine to create real-time,
high caliber inferences like what's happening in the home.
That still to me feels like
a really interesting opportunity.
I think the market has shifted from heavy hardware plays
to things that can give homeowners.
At the end of the day, the value is voice of the customer.
What does the customer want?
Like I think they think less about,
does this need to be a big system?
Does this need to be a device?
It's more like, is this solving a problem I have, you know?
And so from a hardware standpoint, we like being able
to empower and unlock value from existing hardware plays.
I would also argue that or posit that home security
and like the smart home are on this,
if they haven't collided, they are going to collide soon.
You know, we've been working in adjacent markets
that are opening up the market for us
in such an extraordinary way.
We've been working with a strategic partner
called Evolution Digital that provides hardware equipment
to mix signal operators and ISPs.
And I think that we'll start to see awareness, security,
and value creation for the homeowner
come together in a really nice, seamless way.
<v ->Yeah, really interesting comments,</v>
especially about layers of value as a result of software
enabling hardware to do different things.
Leah and Abe, let's get some of your perspective
as a traditional professional monitored security providers.
And Leah, we'll start with you.
How is ADT keeping up with all of the change,
and now potentially competing against a single device?
<v ->Yeah, I think that, you know,</v>
there's always still very much room for demand inside
of the security industry for professionally installed
and professionally monitored solutions.
At ADT, we have a portfolio of solutions that are available
for professional install as well as for self-install,
which has, you know, been a major trend
in the last couple of years.
You know, we are seeing not only the systems
and all of the devices that hook onto it,
I think you said it best, Keith when you said, you know,
this collision that's really happened
between smart home and security.
And so we continue to think about the types of devices
that we wanna bring onto the system, the value,
the experiences that these devices are bringing,
as well as, you know, how they can help to enhance like,
security in the home.
So, you know, we're seeing a big collision
obviously in the last few years between video.
So we, you know, have video cameras,
as well as video doorbells,
and in the home and outside of the home,
and the different types of streams
and experiences that can bring
lighting's another factor, right?
So they're more of a smart home,
traditionally a smart home solution that, you know,
can have a lot of effect on security.
So if someone comes up to your front door or your back door,
and a light illuminates, you know,
does that have a different effect on, you know,
an intruder or somebody who shouldn't be in the home?
And so, you know, certain use cases and things like that
are certainly valuable.
How we keep up though, you know, with the devices
as far as being a system verse device,
I think is just making sure
that you're meeting the need of the marketplace.
There'll still always be, you know,
that the demand that we've seen, I think it was at 55%,
Elizabeth, in the latest Parks's research
where there's a huge demand and continues to be demand.
But they'll, you know, as new devices come on board
and new experiences, people will be, you know, invited into,
so we'll actually be able to reach more consumers
by having these devices as part of our ecosystems
and part of the broader systems.
So, you know, that's essentially what we're doing
in thinking about this broader marketplace
and how to bring people into it
as we create new devices and experiences.
<v Elizabeth>And so do, would you characterize</v>
that we have a broader market,
because of the introduction of standalone devices
that also could be professional monitored services?
<v ->Yeah, I certainly think that, you know,</v>
it's reaching out to folks that maybe traditionally were,
you know, didn't have as much interest
in like a broader system, right?
So it brings them in and says,
"Hey, there's this piece of security,
it's just one video camera I'm interested in.
I really like the doorbell."
Oh, a smart lock has a different appeal to me,
but now it brings in that security use case
and becomes more interesting, and that can be a little bit
of a feeder into a broader system
or it can be something that, you know,
it's just a point solution that has, you know,
a monitoring plan around it that can be really interesting
for consumers.
<v Elizabeth>Okay, and so then marketing</v>
to the modern day consumer means perhaps
highlighting different types of value that
these systems can provide.
<v ->Yep.</v>
<v ->So Abe, I wanna see if you can touch</v>
on the Alarm.com perspective perhaps
as a lifestyle service company
versus just a professional monitored services.
<v ->Sure. And the security story's still very strong</v>
and at the center of our offering still,
and it's been exciting to have the opportunity
for things like video.
I think I agree, it's grown the story
where people have an awareness,
and they get a bit of information,
and they realize that may or may not
answer all the questions they thought it would
and they then go looking for other solutions.
Yeah, they want a lock, they want a sensor,
they want a siren, they want a light,
something that really compliments that security story.
So I think we continue to invest a lot
and think about how we can scale our messaging
in a number of dimensions.
You know, whether you care about your front door,
your children, a growing family, whatever it might be.
We definitely have to think about
how we approach our messaging to meet those different needs.
And I think from the lifestyle side,
it is, you know, Tim and I were just talking before,
it's really great how the driver
might initially be security, but you get the stickiness,
the engagement really through the automation devices, right?
You're not having to break into your house every day,
but, you know, my kids couldn't even tell you
where the keys to the house are, they have no idea.
And I think if they, you know, when they grow up in 10,
if there's not a smart lock on the front door,
they're gonna think this is not a smart house,
this is a dumb house, right?
So they're, I think it's getting easier and easier
as the younger generations are becoming more embracing
of technology to lean into those message of lifestyle
and the value added points we get with our platform.
<v ->Okay, and can you touch a little bit more</v>
on this remote video monitoring?
What does that mean?
And where do you see that coming into play
as far as the consumer perspective goes?
<v ->Yeah, so remote video monitoring</v>
is really just taking that security story
and adding the professional monitoring component onto it.
So I think we have, I think we're missing
a little check mark in one of your things
that we've started to add on just recently.
So I think it's exactly that.
It's one thing to have the awareness,
but when you want help,
you want someone to actually be addressing that problem,
all the same things where we sold
a professionally monitored traditional intrusion system.
You know, if you're on a plane,
and you get an alert who's solving that problem.
Now you can start with that with video,
and then again, grow from that video perspective
to other things or be happy with video alone.
And really I think that's growing the addressable market,
not really so much stealing from the people
that want a more robust intrusion system in their house.
<v ->Sure, okay.</v>
And I think 2025 might be the year of locks.
There is a lot that is happening around locks
and making them smart and this transition.
And so Tim, tell us a little bit more about the marketing
that goes along with this product,
and how you're appealing to customers to get them
to take something out of their door that's always worked
to a certain way and convincing them
that to go with something smart and connected.
<v ->Sure, yeah.</v>
We do think this year in particular
is the year of the smart lock.
We announced a couple of new products yesterday
as an example, one that's bringing,
or we'll bring later this year, a really fabulous experience
where you don't have to have a smartphone or a watch,
you just walk up to the door and it knows you,
and it unlocks the door automatically,
and seamlessly for you.
And that's part of our real mantra at Schlage
is to create these seamless access experiences.
So part of our drive with smart lock products
is to make the experience with consumers
really connect with them and make access seamless for them,
but also secure.
That's one of the reasons why we think this year
is gonna be the year of the smart lock.
The second thing is,
as we have continued to build some of our partnerships
with different platforms like an Airbnb,
bringing that smart lock experience to a whole new audience
is one of the other things that we see is driving people
to be interested in smart locks who may never have been
exposed to a smart lock.
So if you go to a property
that has one of our smart locks on it,
when you're staying at a vacation home somewhere
and really have this fabulous experience
of getting in seamlessly and easily,
that's really helped bring awareness of smart locks
to a broader audience.
You know, you think about, you know,
an average person that's,
or an average vacation rental property
has two to three guests a month, you multiply that
by how many vacation rental homes there are
that really exposes products like ours
to a whole new audience,
which we're really excited about as well.
So those are a couple things
that we see really driving this year of smart locks.
And kind of the third element of that is bringing
more integrated experiences with our products,
so that we create more value for the customers
that's integrating with partners like Alarm.com
to bring new experiences to the homeowner.
You know, integrations of access with alarm systems
to arm and disarm as an example.
Integrations with, you know, partners like Ring to,
you know, look at a video feed from a doorbell,
and unlock the door if you want to to, you know,
simple integrations like turning on your lights
when the door unlocks when you come home.
That's one of my wife's favorites.
Those are a few things.
<v ->Okay, great.</v>
And yeah, you know, we just published some research
on single family rental homes,
and we see this as a new segment of built homes
where technology is really being incorporated everywhere,
because there's so much value to be able to access
and get into the home, or without a key to be able
to send people and the convenience factor.
Does anybody else wanna make any comments about locks, Leah?
<v ->Yeah, I'll take a little bit.</v>
So we, at ADT, we just launched a feature in the marketplace
in Q4 called Trusted Neighbor,
and essentially is a lot of the same,
you know, principles that we're talking about.
So it's, you know, this keyless entry
where someone can walk up to the door,
be recognized by the video doorbell, door unlock,
system disarms, and you're allowed to go into the home.
The homeowner in that case can do it,
let's just say at an instant, like if something,
an event was triggered and it happens then,
or on a cadence, right?
So I have a dog walker or somebody that needs to enter
my home on a frequent basis.
And so it's been interesting to sort of portray it
as a use case in the marketing and things that we did in Q4.
So, you know, big part of what we did
was pushing that out there, things like, you know,
huge billboard displays in Times Square and you know,
all the way through what you're seeing on TV.
But rather than talking about it as elements,
like as point solutions, as a video doorbell,
as a smart lock, tying it together and saying to consumers,
"Hey, there's this use case for you to have
that enables this abracadabra moment when someone walks up
to your door is recognized, door opens,
you know, the alarm is disarmed,
they can enter for a period of time.
And then of course after the exit, you know, is re-armed,
and the home is back to its state."
So that was exciting.
And we took that as far as even going
into non-security events.
So things like water, which is, you know,
something that's a huge use case for the home,
but isn't necessarily,
is I say peripheral maybe to security,
but allows your neighbor to go in and say,
turn off the water or do something, you know,
in the case that there was actually a leak.
So that was a big part
of what we ran through Q4 and into this year,
and it's been a really exciting promotion.
We've seen a lot of consumers really take to the fact
that it's use case based
versus maybe just like point solution or, you know,
talking about it as some device that's out there.
It's a little less scary maybe to some to say,
"Hey, I'm gonna replace my locks, you know,
replace my doorbell, and do this, because now there's this
ubiquitous use case that works for me."
<v Elizabeth>And so all of these</v>
what we're talking about has AI and artificial intelligence
baked in pretty much everywhere.
And so Keith, I wanna see if you can share a little bit more
about what Ubiety is doing with the AI side
of the experience for the consumer and why this matters
so much when we're talking about security at home.
<v ->Yeah, so Ubiety's taken a very purpose-built</v>
novel approach to artificial intelligence.
We're not relying on any LLMs or third-party models.
We developed this entirely in-house.
And the thesis is, our AI engines called Eckleburg.
If you've read "Great Gatsby," that's fun.
But the thesis is that we spent several years
building a ground truth catalog, fingerprinting catalog
of how all device types communicate
unrelated to them being on the network, right?
So why is that interesting?
Our thesis is presence verification, right?
So if someone, and I, by the way, am a big fan of cameras,
so what I'm about to say is not something disparaging,
but like if I have one camera on my front door,
and I walk in through the front door,
and the home says I'm home,
but I walk out through my garage and I leave,
am I still there?
Like our job is to persistently provide
presence verification.
And so we did that through radio frequency signaling.
We had this form of Faraday cages, which is a,
these boxes that prevent signals from outside coming in.
And we understood the ground truth
of how every device type communicates
in Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and cellular,
and then we created inference engines
when we see those signaling types in the wild.
So the use cases are in a conventional monitoring solution,
if an alarm is going off, we can tell the monitoring center
within a second exactly who's there,
so they dynamically change how they action the alarm event.
They don't go through some rote process,
they don't send a generic text out.
They send exactly messages and communications
to the people they know are there
just left or just got there.
Then in the anomalous version,
it's like someone enters a home, like we have five children,
and there's seven iPhones in our house.
Anytime any device walks into my house
that's not known to the home, I get an alert.
So my 13-year-old daughter brings a friend at home
who has a Google Pixel, I get an alert.
And I can say, "Olivia.
Oh, hey. Did you bring a friend home, right?"
So it's like we're trying to provide context
and situational awareness, and that also manifests in,
I like what you said, Leah, about use cases.
It's like we drive those in use cases or product features,
party detection.
We can tell you if there's more people in your home
than should be.
We can tell you if people are there
that have never been seen before.
And all that's driven around AI of the home,
which is we know exactly the telemetry
or behavioral analytics of a home.
And so anytime something anomalous happens,
we're able to serve that to the homeowner.
<v ->Okay, you said a lot of really great things there,</v>
but I think summing it up, you know,
verification seems to be the key word,
and we know that is critical of critical importance
for the responders, right?
When a monitored alarm goes off, there is somebody,
there's a dispatch, there's emergency is being called.
And so Abe, I wanna see maybe if you can talk
a little bit more about AI and verification,
and maybe you could touch on AVS-01,
explain why some of these things are so important
not just to us as individuals, but for local communities
and for our first responders,
who are the ones gonna be showing up at the door
when alarms are going off.
<v ->Sure, so I mean maybe AI should be actionable insights.</v>
That's what we're trying to get.
We're just trying to get trusted real information
out of the home at a critical time sensitive moment, right?
So whether that's AI, whether that's putting together
information from three discreet sensors,
you know, the customer's phone,
and there are application and information,
and inputs from other users.
We're all trying to just give the best possible story,
because there's kind of been,
while we have a proliferation of systems, right?
The most alarms are false, right?
So I think we have a responsibility
to keep raising the bar on the information
that we're sharing upstream,
so that better decisions can be made for the responsible use
of resources to respond to those issues.
So AI is a big part of that, right? Yeah.
Discreet sensors used to go off, you could often look at it,
and look at time, history, historical actions.
There's a lot of insights around likelihood of events
that we bring into our interface along with video.
You know, is there an actual person that's been detected
where we can bring other elements
of sensing from other systems,
we're always happy to add that in to create
that stronger picture of activity.
<v ->Okay, great, thank you for that.</v>
And AVS-01 is a important initiative
where there is a verification
and then scoring of different alarms,
and this is connecting to the ECCs
who are the ones who are getting the calls in,
and then making decisions about what to do
based on the information at hand.
And so all of this technology
that's getting put into the home
is built to give that group, you know,
the important context they need to decide,
do we dispatch the police, do we not?
Is there fire, you know, people that are needed out there.
It becomes critical, it's also our money, right?
Our tax paying dollars are the ones funding the police
and the people that are responding.
And so the more that the technology companies can provide,
the better off everybody is in the end
as far as verified alarms go.
I wanna switch gears and touch a little bit
on interoperability and standards,
because we now have these different systems
and/or devices with other devices coming into play.
And so Tim, maybe give us a little bit of a view
on what matters for security in the world of locks
as it relates to Z-Wave, Matter, Thread.
Really whatever standards you wanna reference here.
<v ->Thanks.</v>
So first off, you know, from our perspective,
we do like standards.
We've been providing smart locks
with different standards in them
as those standards have evolved.
We started out with Zigbee many years ago.
We have also launched Z-Wave locks.
That's gotten a lot of attraction with security systems,
which has done really well.
It really helps create a couple of things
I think for the consumer.
The setup experience is very much known
and quantified for consumer when they're setting up
a device or a system provider,
or an installer is installing the lock,
it's standards help create a homogeneous setup experience.
So there's one thing, whether that's Zigbee, Matter, Z-Wave,
the consistent experience in the setup process
has been very helpful.
The second thing that we like about standards
is that it helps organize the information from devices
like our locks into systems,
so that it's easy to be leveraged and used by other systems,
be that alarm system, or something else that's talking
to a device like our locks.
You know, as standards evolve,
they tend to try and solve different things.
You know, they learn from each other.
So the Matter standard is really, you know,
focused on the broad device types that are in the home,
and we'll continue to come out with more device types
as that standard evolves,
but also creating that again,
even better consumer experience that's secure.
So I think those are the things that we see with standards
at a device communications level.
The other thing too is from a manufacturer standpoint,
when we're building a product that's gonna work
with a standard be that Z-Wave or Matter,
or another is that, you know, we're not having
to do integrations with this system and then this system,
and then this system, which, you know,
adds time to the development cycle and adds cost too.
And so for us, standards are beneficial,
but we still have the flexibilities of manufacturer
to build our own value into our products.
You know, we tend to be known for high reliability products,
products that last years and years, and years.
We also have a little bit of a flare for style
and design with our products.
So those are some of the things that we can still do
with our products to differentiate themselves
over other standard products.
And the other things, standards aren't built
to do everything.
And so when we build our products,
we also build in other communications flexibility,
so that we can work with other systems
that may not be covered by the standard.
<v ->Okay, great.</v>
So standards definitely matter, they're important.
And Matter does matter,
as one of those jokes of the year probably.
Let's talk a little bit more about Wi-Fi sensing.
This is another one of these hot topics
driven by all the technology
that's getting built into the hardware.
Abe, is that something you wanna touch on?
<v ->Sure, so it's just, you know, another exciting opportunity</v>
to bring more information into our ecosystem,
into the story of activity and presence in the home
and you know, to leverage perhaps
the customer's existing devices or to bring in affordable,
you know, sensing devices where instead of having
to go on a room by room basis with the PIR,
you could put in one or two devices,
and cover a floor or a house.
So we see it as absolutely complimentary
to the existing infrastructure that we deploy.
And so I think the more we can start to bring that in,
layer it into maybe even some existing devices
already go in the home, it just gives us a richer picture
of activity that again supports the story of better action,
better insights, and better results from the system.
<v Elizabeth>Can you share a little bit more about</v>
what the customer gets back as far as information goes
when Wi-Fi sensing is are there notifications
that are popping up?
<v ->I mean we treat it in our system a lot</v>
like a PIR, a motion sensor.
That's what we are getting.
We are getting motion.
It just might be over a broader scope,
like I said, multiple rooms or a floor,
and then it flows into our system,
just like you can do anything to connect events together.
So you could keep your lights on, turn your lights off,
if there's inactivity, trigger alerts if you
all of a sudden get a motion at an unexpected time.
We don't yet typically pull that into the,
you know, the alarm infrastructure.
So it's notification awareness,
but something we are happy to explore,
kind of thinking about it as complimentary
to video only, for example.
There's an interesting sort of broader set of awareness
with your perimeter being video,
and then getting understanding about what's going on
in your home at a general level without needing to,
you know, deploy something from a privacy perspective
that people are typically resistant to.
<v ->Okay, yeah, if I can add a tail onto that one too.</v>
I think, you know, just thinking about future use cases
and how you would use it too, just the anomaly detection.
So it's not only like the aggregation of that data,
what it's telling you, if there's a combination of things
that are happening, is that more powerful,
or tell you more about the event that's happening.
But then if the same event happens every day
and it doesn't happen this day, what does that mean?
And so I think there's sort of the reverse
that anomaly detection,
which actually adds in a flavor of AI
like we were talking about before to understand,
you know, if something is supposed to happen and didn't,
you know, what does that mean as well for consumers.
<v ->Okay, great.</v>
Any other comments on Wi-Fi sensing, anything? No.
Okay, let's talk about where's the next set
of revenue coming from?
There is the recurring fees that can be charged
for the professional monitor alarm,
but what else are traditional companies
able to charge for now beyond what they have in the past?
Leah, would you like to answer that question?
<v ->The money question.</v>
<v ->Money question.</v>
<v ->So you know, I think that we have a very traditional model</v>
at ADT that revolves around residential security,
and it's one that, you know,
we're understanding that consumers want choice.
They want choice in the types of devices
that they have in the home.
They want choices on the type of monitoring,
whether it's pro-monitor, self-monitor.
And by the way, there's flavors in between that, right?
So I might want just fire or I might want just supervisory
like water and other things,
or I might also just want security.
And so as we explore sort of the variety
of what can be offered,
there are many different types of business models,
or recurring monthly revenues
that can be associated to those.
You can package it, you certainly can have different types
of hardware that are associated to packages to create,
you know, new recurring models there.
So that's been exciting.
One other thing that we have also looked into is, you know,
how we can work and protect customers outside of the home.
And so we work with companies on the,
like in the gig economy, like Uber and Lyft, and DoorDash,
and others, and there's revenue streams involved
with embedding our monitoring services
and our monitoring agent services inside
of their experiences as well.
And so I think that there are a lot of potential ways
when we think about sort of the core of the business
and, you know, monitoring as a service
and what we might do there to, you know,
create now new revenue models for our business.
<v Elizabeth>Okay.</v>
Keith, have any ideas where the next set
of revenue's coming from?
<v ->Yeah, I think, I mean candidly we use Parks's research</v>
as to understand the motivators for what is actioning,
someone to make a decision to buy security.
The research is phenomenal.
And the majority of it is around use cases
that serve a homeowner, something they find valuable, right?
You know, I would argue that the fundamental value promise
of a security company to a homeowner is that
in the event of an alarm, you will intervene
with some sort of action, law enforcement or otherwise.
So that's value promise one.
But if that value promise one isn't met,
it's really hard to stack things on top of it.
And so our view is from work with partners,
large security dealers is engagement
is what will drive folks to use a system more.
So how do you get a homeowner to find value
in between the alarms, or to borrow Abe's thing,
in between the false alarms, right?
Like it is you really want to create something
that they say, "I wanna log into this app,
use it multiple times a day,
because it's serving me something valuable
to me and my family."
That's it.
And so when you can achieve that, you've done a thing.
And I think, you know, I will just be candid,
our work has been so technical for a long time.
The best decision we've made in the company
is hiring an obsessed product leader who cares,
she's intense about the voice of the customer.
She's like, "I don't wanna hear about technology,
that's cool.
I wanna see how we're gonna deliver
for the pain point to the customer."
And so I think the customer's gonna answer that question,
did I get value outta this thing?
And if so, I will pay for that.
<v ->Yeah, I think that's really good points.</v>
And we also, in our research work, see security moving
not just for the home environment,
but actually to the person.
So this idea of personal safety
and extending services beyond the home.
It could be the car, the vehicle,
lots going on with vehicle safety,
but it could just be somebody who's walking down
in urban area and wants to ensure that they feel safe
and are safe with the ability to have a response there.
So the hardware is shifting
to be able to really go anywhere, right?
And that is a big difference in change
that I think we're seeing over the past many years
is the capabilities of technology,
and how much more that they can do.
Abe, I wanna go over to you here,
and just ask another question on the revenue side,
and understanding how you're moving customers
from one tier of service to another,
and being able to show that value to them
to capture that next stream of revenue.
<v ->Yeah, I think the most of the credit of that goes</v>
to our service providers for, you know,
moving their partners up the value chain.
So it's our responsibility and we are often just thinking
about how can we make a flexible, scalable security platform
that then can meet whatever that new need might be.
So make sure that we have consistent user experiences,
consistent installer experiences.
So it's easy for some new combination
or permutation of security, whatever that might be.
Personal security, video security, fire and water security.
You know, just have all those options and then create,
you know, appropriate solutions
that are matched on the value,
and easy for service providers to deploy to new customers.
<v Elizabeth>Yeah.</v>
I think it's so true that people do pay for what they value.
And I know many people probably have an iPhone, right?
And spent $1,500 on their phone,
and might've thought five or 10 years ago,
I never would spend $1,500 on a mobile device.
And now everybody's doing that all the time.
So it's not necessarily about money, right?
It's about what's important to people,
and safety and security really being at the heart of it.
So I wanna end our discussion here with a final question,
and if you could keep your comments brief,
what is the adjacent area that you think
is gonna grow the most in 2025?
And it isn't professional monitored security
as something besides that?
And so Leah, we'll start with you, and go down the line.
<v ->Yeah, I think I'd like to wrap it</v>
with what we talked about in a little bit earlier,
you know, devices and smart locks being a big part of that.
You know, I think that as we continue
to bring experiences into the marketplace,
that that's what's going to really incent people
to have new devices, more devices,
and that stickiness factor.
I think Abe, it was you who mentioned, you know,
earlier that when you have more devices that are on a system
for a consumer at home, that's more likely
that they are to sort of stay with you.
And so that's a big principle that we think about.
And so when we think about enabling experiences,
creating more devices that go with it and the stickiness,
I think that's an important part.
And that starts with things like video cameras,
video doorbells, and locks.
<v ->I might take a contrarian view here.</v>
I believe the router is gonna emerge
as the most powerful piece of equipment in the home
that's gonna enable a lot of things including security
or security light.
I'm just seeing that market take actions
in a way that suggests delivering value to homeowners.
And I'm excited to be a contributor to that.
I see that as a really interesting platform.
<v ->Yeah, great comment there.</v>
The network and the router are of critical importance.
Very good point.
<v ->And I think I can kind of agree with everybody,</v>
and think about maybe scaled security solutions
that fit between maybe pro-install and DIY today
as we define them.
So something in the middle or a little orthogonal,
and likely centered around I think video,
certainly it's an easy sell
and an easy thing to initially understand,
but hopefully some more creative solutions
that are in between the spaces we serve today.
<v ->So a hybrid?</v>
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->Some kind of hybrid.</v>
<v ->Yeah, I'm gonna take this in a little different direction.</v>
When I think about adjacencies
and as it relates to our business in terms of home access,
one of the areas that we think is interesting
in the new construction space
is how do you make property touring interesting,
or easier and more seamless?
And so, you know, as we bring smart products into that,
you know, new construction market,
how can we make accessing those
and touring those properties easier
is one of those adjacencies that I think is interesting
that we'll explore as a business.
<v ->Okay, great.</v>
That will be the last word.
If you would please give a round of applause
for our panelists.