<v ->Well, good afternoon all.</v>
Thank you for joining us for the third installment
in the Novaspace panels here at CES.
This panel is going to cover cloud and data centers
for corporate satellite connectivity.
My name is Dara Panahy. I'm a partner with Milbank, LLP.
It's a law firm, it's not a military bank.
I lead the firm's Space Business practice
and the Transportation and Space Group
out of the Washington, DC office.
Just to frame the discussion
before I quickly introduce the speakers,
satellites currently are a small
but essential part of the connectivity network ecosystem.
Satellites are growing as part of that system forecasted
to exceed about 50 terabits per second of capacity by 2026,
which is roughly doubling in two years.
Increasingly, cloud and data service providers,
including AWS, Microsoft,
BT, Orange, AT&amp;T, NTT, Lumen, TIM,
and also others, some of them here,
are relying on satellite networks for their services,
current generation satellites,
whether they operate in low Earth orbit
or medium Earth orbit,
we call it LEO and MEO in the satellite business,
as well as GEO, less so there, geostationary orbit.
They do provide connectivity with some trade-offs.
In MEO and LEO, you have latency, or delay,
of between 150 to 50 milliseconds
for the space to Earth leg.
And all of these different orbits involve trade-offs
between coverage, speed, and system complexity.
But there are today numerous live 5G networks
that are connecting via satellites to the cloud,
and we'll get a little bit into that as well
and a few other topics.
So with us, we're very lucky
to have a very distinguished panel.
Far to the end of the seats here is,
Retired Major General Clint Crosier.
He's director of Aerospace and Satellite
at Amazon Web Services, has been leading
the global aerospace and satellite businesses at AWS,
and providing customers with cloud solutions
and space missions.
Prior to AWS, he spent 33 years
with the Air Force / Space Force,
and I'll embarrass him.
He has been generally credited
as the architect of the Space Force.
Next to him, Rika Nakazawa,
she's the Chief Commercial Innovation Officer at NTT.
A senior technology leader, VC investor, bestselling author,
with expertise in technology driven transformation.
In her current role, she focuses
on advanced commercial and sustainable initiatives
for NTT Space satellite innovations,
while also leading key global initiatives
that integrate NTT's R &amp; D investments.
Next to her, Dr. Sunghee Lee, he's the CEO of Contec.
He spent more than 16 years before that
at the Korea Aerospace Research Institute, KARI,
which is a significant global aerospace organization.
He contributed to major Korean space projects,
and also serves as a visiting researcher
at the Carleton College on CubeSat missions.
He recently founded Contec to advance satellite technology
and innovative solutions in the industry.
So we're gonna dive right in
to a few topical based discussions,
and we'll have a couple
of pauses along the way for audience questions
or contributions if you'd like to jump in.
So let's start at the high level,
jumping into structural pros and cons
of connecting cloud and data centers via satellite
versus other modalities, whether it be fiber
or other terrestrial solutions, as well
as any emerging technologies you think will
enhance the proposition and efficiency
of using space as a connectivity node.
Who wanted to jump in first on that?
<v ->I'll go first?</v>
<v ->Go ahead, please.</v>
<v ->Okay, thank you for your questions.</v>
Actually, I just would like to explain
with one example in South Korea.
In case of South Korea, we have a lot
of the great optical network, 99%,
in that case actually, we don't need
to make the communication with the satellite,
but, because, in case of SpaceX, they just try
to provide their service in South Korea.
But it's just Elon Musk. Sad, I guess.
South Korea market is not good,
but the other countries, like Southeast Asian area, in case
of Indonesia or the other country, is a lot of island.
In that case, not great, the optical network.
In that case, we needed to have the satellite communication
to provide the cloud access or the internet service.
So in terms of this, satellite connectivity is quite useful
to provide the internet service
to the whole of the people, whole of the area.
Also, actually we just use any kind of the video content
or the education, hospital.
So it is quite a great convenience
for the whole of people.
The other way take is,
if we just have some problem, the fiber optical line,
the satellite communication,
quite great backup infrastructure.
One of the example, maybe last year is,
in China, the fishing boat,
they just cut the ocean fiber optical line,
nearby the Taiwan area.
In the case, Taiwan government, okay,
we just make the backup communication with the satellite.
So for this reason, actually satellite communication,
satellite connectivity is quite useful.
But we also have some of the drawback.
So limited bandwidth, also more delay.
So for this reason, as I know, the AWS,
you just co-work with the Unibap or the D-Orbit,
to serve this kind of the issue,
though maybe in the near future, maybe AWS,
we just make this kind of the solution also.
Yeah, that is my perspective.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
<v ->Yeah, I think, so it's important.</v>
This is a very broad topic, right?
If you go to the website for this session,
there's a couple sentences describing,
but really you could unpack it in so many ways.
So I think it's important to parse it
in a way that's gonna be relevant for your business
or for your customer.
Power of three, to simplify it,
I think there's one segment which is,
all right, so data center
and computing in space for a space economy use.
So in space, what are the challenges?
What are the opportunities?
The second one is terrestrial, non-terrestrial.
So a very obvious one there
for some of us is Earth observation.
So what role do data centers either terrestrially
or eventually data centers in space?
And that's by the way, not going
to be the big monolithic structures
that you see in Arizona being lofted into orbit.
Well, I don't think so anyway.
So re-imagining data centers is part of the narrative,
but that terrestrial, non-terrestrial is
how do we take Earth observation images,
which is a tremendous amount of data, not just optically,
but other variety data formats that are now being able
to be detected with remote sensing,
and being able to use that here on Earth
for a variety of use cases.
And then the third segment,
or the third dimension to think about data centers
and computing in space is really the energy challenge
that we have with AI.
So NTT, we're a significant provider
in the data center business.
So this is something
that we're thinking about very, very carefully is
that the demands of AI and compute,
and by the way, I'm former Nvidia,
I worked on a team that was the mobile group,
that was Tegra, which is now some of the foundation
of what's in Nvidia today.
And by the way, no, I did not hold onto my stock
when I left in 2010, so please don't ask me.
It's a very sore topic.
Although of course I'm a big fan of Jensen,
and I know he really was able
to kick things off here at CES.
But the idea is that how can we use space ecosystem
to help solve for some of these challenges?
Because as AI, agentic AI,
and that just becomes a natural fabric of how we use compute
and digital economies of the future.
And by the way, 2 billion people around the world,
still not even really online yet.
And as they come online,
how are we gonna manage all of that?
And thinking about the space in orbit as something
that can help us address that is going to be key.
Of course, what is going to be a major barrier to that is
if it gets too darn crowded up there, if it's true
that we have a hundred thousand LEO
or satellites in orbit by the year 2030,
it's going to be very, very crowded.
And I think that's gonna create some significant challenges.
But I just wanted to kind
of explain how I think about this topic.
It's very wide,
but if we simplify it to those three areas,
I think becomes a little bit easier in terms
of drilling down on specific, not rabbit holes,
maybe more grooves of the record I'll say.
<v ->Yeah, thank you.</v>
It's a pleasure to be here at CES.
It's my first time here at CES,
and so thank you to Contec for inviting me,
and Novaspace for inviting me.
And then my friends, Dr. Lee at Contec
and Rika Nakazawa at NTT,
it's a privilege to be with you on the stage here too.
I think this is a really, really interesting topic,
which is one of the reasons I was excited to be here.
I think the integration
of these technologies is inevitable, right?
Between space and satcom and cloud
and data and data centers,
the integration is already occurring, but it's inevitable.
And it's inevitable for a couple of reasons.
One, we will never use as a people on the planet Earth,
we will never use space less tomorrow
than we use it today, right?
If we just go back and look over time, we have continued
to use space in more and more ways.
There are so many ways we use space today
that we didn't even envision 10 years ago, 15 years ago,
to figure out the best way to get from your hotel
to the Las Vegas Convention Center here today, right?
We never anticipated that.
When space was born,
it was born primarily as a means to collect intelligence
and to provide communications.
And then we've seen the explosion
of the way we use space technology
and space capability today that will only increase.
It will never get less than.
When I look at the cloud,
and I'm privileged to work for Amazon Web Services,
a leading cloud provider in the world,
we will never consume less cloud
in the world than we do today, I don't believe so.
We have all understood the power
of cloud-based technologies,
whether it's artificial intelligence, machine learning,
advanced data analytics, quantum computing, micro computing,
whatever the case may be.
There are so many extraordinary technologies today
that really can only be harvested
and leveraged at scale on the cloud.
We will never, as a people,
use less cloud tomorrow than we do today.
So when we bring those together, we recognize
that we've got these multi technologies
that are all coming together in a unique fashion and fabric,
and they go so well together,
because they enable the growth of each other.
Space and space data will enable the growth of the cloud,
and the cloud will enable the growth
of what we use for space and space data.
So it's just an exciting time.
I really appreciate Rika's point about the space economy.
Some people call it space for space
versus space for terrestrial or space for Earth,
because those are two very unique markets
that we see right now today.
Today and in the near term, most of the processing,
the vast majority of the processing
of space data, goes on today on the earth.
And that has been okay to this point,
but as we're bringing more and more data down,
and we require less and less latency,
and more and more bandwidth, we're gonna have
to make a choice about whether we wanna process in orbit.
And I appreciate Dr. Lee's reference
to the demonstration we did
with our friends at D-Orbit two years ago
where we put an on orbit edge computing capability
on a D-Orbit satellite and demonstrated that that works.
And we reduced downlink requirements by 42%
by processing on orbit rather than pushing it to the ground.
So we're gonna see more and more of that.
And then, I'll turn over the microphone here,
but as we look at the space economy,
or space for space, as we think
about in-orbit satellite servicing,
in-orbit space manufacturing,
asteroid mining, space tourism,
moving through the Artemis program
onto the moon and then onto Mars,
the number of use cases for cloud
and satellite technology in the space economy,
I think will ultimately outpace what we're using space
for here on the earth over time, decades from now.
But those are just two really powerful ways
to think about it.
And Rika, I appreciate you teeing those two up.
<v ->Actually since you brought up space tourism.</v>
Do you mind Dara if I ask the audience a question?
<v ->Go right ahead, please.</v>
<v ->I'm just curious,</v>
because I'm starting to ask this question,
not just at dinner parties anymore,
but forums like this, by show of hands, how many
of you are interested in going to the moon
if you could go to the moon?
Okay.
<v ->About half.</v>
<v ->Yeah, about half.</v>
<v ->About half, maybe about half.</v>
<v ->Great. Thank you.</v>
I was just curious. Thanks.
<v ->Not at all.</v>
<v ->Depends on price.</v>
<v ->Depends on price point.</v>
<v ->That's usually my next question is</v>
what is the maximum disposable income amount you would
pay today to go to space?
And the number that I've gotten mostly is $10,000.
<v ->$10,000. Hmm.</v>
<v ->How much would you pay? Maximum.</v>
<v ->Maximum is 1 million.</v>
<v ->1 million?</v>
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->Wow.</v>
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->All right. Thank you.</v>
<v ->Well, Rika, since you kindly went in uncharted territory,</v>
let's ask you to talk a little bit about today,
space to Earth, tangible applications.
NTT's got a few solutions
that's either in testing or deployed.
There's NTT network in a box.
I think it's probably got a more formal name than that,
but that's the name I go with.
And then NTT is part of a very interesting demonstration
ongoing in conjunction with JSAT, a satellite operator,
Aalto, a HAPS provider, and trying
to look at traditional and non-traditional space
and aerospace solutions to providing connectivity.
Love to hear about some of the tangible applications
in terms of how we connect corporate and other solutions.
<v ->Yeah, and thanks for doing the homework. That's awesome.</v>
So yes, network in a box. We affectionately call it the NIB.
It is private 5G, private wireless network in a box.
So it's about the size
of maybe the refrigerator you have in your Vegas hotel,
times two, depending on the size
of the fridge, but roughly that.
And the team at NTT Data, we're working
with SES as a partner around that.
So Mobile World Congress, we showcase that.
For any of you going to MWC next year,
you'll see the next iteration of that.
But that's all about with MEO satellite
to terrestrial and backhaul.
But more specifically, a couple
of the other advanced initiatives
that we're working on, are really
around terrestrial, non-terrestrial connectivity.
The session before this was about connected vehicle,
which is one of the use case areas,
or business case areas, that is of great interest
of terrestrial, non-terrestrial.
So being able to use 3GPP standards
to enable narrow band IoT connectivity in remote locations,
which of course, SpaceX has already been working on.
And there's already I think, Chinese entities
that have been demonstrating 6G direct to satellite.
So there's a lot of interesting developments
that are happening around terrestrial, non-terrestrial.
But the area that I've been spending most of my time on,
because one of my other areas is sustainability,
just in general of where sustainability hits the business
and commercial road, is Earth observation.
So about three months ago,
World Economic Forum in Deloitte did a study.
They said that Earth observation has the opportunity
to unlock $700 billion worth of value.
Earth observation has been predominantly
in the domain of military and intelligence
for reasons that are around geopolitical
and just tracking movement of vehicles, people,
and machinery around the world.
But really Earth observation is
around leveraging the advances that are happening
in remote sensing satellites to be able
to find commercial applications,
private sector applications,
which at NTT we've been looking at.
We've launched a new group
within NTT called Marble Visions, which is an ode
to the blue marble image that was taken
in 1972 by Apollo 17,
where the astronauts looked at the earth
and they said, that looks really fragile,
and they called it the blue marble.
And hence Marble Visions is our ode to that.
And so we're working on a vertically integrated solution,
which is all around putting satellites in orbit in 2026,
Earth observation, with some partners,
and being able to readily capture optical, SAR,
hyperspectral, multispectral, variety of data images
around geographic footprints,
and being able to integrate, institute data,
so from IoT devices or from machine vision cameras,
and create a dynamic digital twin,
which sounds very Star Trek holography.
But we do believe that that is going to be something
that will be coming in the very near future.
And those are some of the areas that we're investing in.
And for us, when we talk about the space ecosystem,
it's not science fiction stuff, it's a natural extension
of what NTT does today
around connectivity, data, and intelligence.
So it's a natural extension of that fabric.
And last summer we announced C89.
C stands for constellation, Constellation 89 being the name
that we're giving for all the different initiatives
that NTT is driving.
And we spend three and a half billion dollars
on R &amp; D every year.
And a part of that is around space and satellite ecosystem.
So if there's anybody that would like
to learn more about what we're doing there,
because it doesn't take the village anymore,
it takes the whole cosmic, space system to make this happen,
we'd love to talk to anybody afterwards, thank you.
<v ->Thank you, Rika.</v>
Clint, if we can pull on that thread a little bit,
we'd love to hear some more sort
of practical, tangible examples of the concept.
I know AWS has spent a lot of time solving for on-premise,
edge focused solutions, aggregation solutions,
localized processing.
If you could share some
of these containerized, if you will, solutions
with the audience, give them a lay person's sense
of how this is working and connected by satellite,
I think that'd be very helpful.
<v ->Yeah, thank you. Happy to do that.</v>
So I will tell you, four years ago, AWS sort
of looked out across this industry
and saw a lot of this growth
that we're talking about right now today.
And the first sort of foray
into the dedicated space mission,
now we've been supporting space organizations, like NASA,
at AWS for over a decade, but four years ago we came up
with a dedicated space focus mission,
and we launched the AWS Ground Station.
And the idea behind AWS Ground Station,
with ground station as a service, was simply, one,
there aren't enough ground stations out there
or won't be over time.
And we're seeing that right now, even today.
When you look at the number of satellites
that'll be on orbit in the next 5 years, 10 years,
the ground system industry will tell you
that we're concerned about the capacity that we can process
through all the ground stations.
So it was an additive value
to the ground station total capacity.
But more importantly, more importantly, the value
behind the AWS Ground Station was
we built the ground station
such that they're directly connected into the AWS cloud.
So we created even four years ago,
the very first direct connectivity
from satellite on orbit data into the AWS cloud.
So Earth observation companies like Capella and BlackSky
and others that are using the AWS Ground Station have been
for some years porting their data directly from space
into the AWS cloud to be able
to process near instantaneously,
and get reduced latency, increased security, et cetera.
So that's one of the things, even going back four years ago,
we started seeing the need
for direct connect capability from space into the cloud
or into data centers.
Two years later, we partnered with one of our partners
and friends, SES systems, SES satellites,
where SES built the first direct connect capability
from their satellites.
So what I described previously
with AWS Ground Station was an Earth observation satellite
downloading its Earth observation data into the cloud.
SES is a satcom provider, satellite communications.
And so we built the first partnership with SES
where we directly connected their satcom satellites
into the AWS cloud to let you port any data you wanted,
whether it was Earth observation or other.
And so with those direct connect capabilities from SES
into the AWS cloud, we and SES were able
to support companies like shipping companies,
and mining companies, and oil platforms,
remote locations that typically
don't have global connectivity are now connected
into the AWS cloud via satellite.
And so we've been doing that for a couple years.
So as we've been exploring basic connectivity
between space and cloud,
and have been doing that for a couple years,
my friend Dr. Lee mentioned, and Dara, you mentioned,
moving into edge computing.
So let me touch that briefly.
AWS has really pioneered edge computing
over the last 10 or 12 years.
And basically when we think of edge computing,
I know a lot of people use the term,
but the way we think about edge computing,
if you aren't computing in a data center,
then you're doing edge computing, right?
That's the basic definition.
You're either computing
inside a cloud computing data center,
and if you're not computing
inside a cloud computing data center,
you're doing edge computing.
Now, sometime that edge compute might be across the street
at a business, it might be 20 miles away connected
by fiber or optical or other,
or it might be an oil platform
or a remote agriculture facility
or an IoT device out on a ship, commercial shipping.
So for a decade, AWS is focused
on developing edge computing capabilities.
In other words, it's too costly and difficult
for our customers to move their data to the cloud,
so rather we will push the cloud to their data.
So we built a whole set
of edge computing infrastructure with Outposts and others
that push the cloud infrastructure capability
to where the data is to make it easier for our customers.
Our customers that we're talking about today just so happen,
to operate off the surface of the planet in many ways.
So as we're thinking about edge computing,
it's a natural progression to move edge computing
from off the terrestrial planet Earth and into space.
And so Dr. Lee mentioned, we did a demonstration,
an experiment about two years ago
with our friends at D-Orbit
where we built a cloud computing package
that we had to modify, by the way,
because satellites have SWAP limitations,
size, weight, and power.
So we had to build a purpose-built capability
that went on D-Orbit satellite and D-Orbit launched it.
And then we ran the experiment for edge computing.
One of the other thing,
and as I said, it demonstrated 42% decrease
in downlink requirements, which saves a lot of time, energy,
and money in processing unnecessary bandwidth.
The other tangible example
that we did, was quite exciting, was we partnered
with our friends at Axiom Space.
And on the very first ever Axiom mission, Ax-1,
last year, year and a half ago,
Axiom launched what we call an AWS Snowcone.
A snowcone is a commercial off the shelf capability
that you can order, you can buy it,
you can employ it, there's some modifications happening
to it now, but it has been available
for commercial off the shelf capabilities,
and we built that such that it was rugged enough
that you could put it in the mail
and send it to remote locations.
When we built it at AWS, we didn't realize it was so rugged
we would actually be able to get it
through NASA's space flight qualification program.
But we did.
We spent seven months doing shock, and vibration,
and thermal, and acoustic testing, and everything else,
and it passed NASA's requirements
for in-flight space capability.
So we launched that onto the International Space Station,
and we've run a number of experiments with customers
like SpiderOak and the banking industry,
and other companies, including in Japan
that are supporting, JAXA, on what edge computing
and space means in an on orbit space station.
So those are a couple of things
that we've been working on over the last couple of years.
<v ->Thank you. That's very helpful and a very nice transition.</v>
Dr. Lee, you've been doing some very interesting work
in terms of using, you know,
relatively low cost pedestrian devices
to connect into IoT solutions.
Love to hear about what you're doing
and where you see that going.
<v ->Yeah, but actually for the space based connectivity,</v>
just to provide the various application,
not only the IoT service, also observation data, relay,
also the 5GNTN or D2D service,
actually I'm also the CEO of the APSI.
The APSI, I just would like to do one examples,
we just manufacturing the satellite mobile phone.
We just co-work with the direct communication and Inmarsat.
So nowadays, our partner just suggested,
why don't you make the MBI IoT
on the satellite mobile phone?
We just try to make a certain standard.
So in the near future, I think, now with the 5G,
in the near future, we just have the service
for the 6GNTN, stuff like that.
In that case, actually space based connectivity just
provide the 24 hours, 365 days, D2D service, over the world.
So I think, for this reason that we just try
to make the certain standard
with our Korea Electric Telecommunication Institute
maybe the three years later,
maybe we be just make our standard
with the other country.
So yeah, in the case we just have the more,
the useful space based connectivity with our mobile phone.
We just provide the D2D service.
Also in terms of IoT service,
in case of the Singapore, also in South Korea, the ministry
of the transportation, they just try to make some
of the IoT sensor, whole smart city.
Or when satellite passed by our country,
we just scanning whole of the IoT data with the satellite.
And the satellite just also dropped down,
drop the whole data to the data center, the ground station,
and then we just correct,
then we just analysis those current data
with the space connectivity service, yeah.
<v ->Please, Rika, go ahead.</v>
<v ->Since you mentioned our collaboration with JSAT,</v>
there is also this, it's not a new technology.
Optical data relay is not a new thing,
but in the space sector it's going
to create some breakthroughs,
because optical data relay, so we have a partnership
with JSAT, a venture called Space Compass.
So it's a joint venture between NTT and JSAT.
And the idea is to be able
to do optical data relay in space,
which will bring down the latency
and increase the throughput,
and also obviate some of the challenges we have with RF,
and being able to bring things back down to Earth.
So there's the optical data relay innovation.
And then the other piece that we are also looking at is
in the high altitude platform system orbit.
So it's really about a multi orbit strategy and connectivity
and being able to have sort
of a high availability consideration across multi orbit.
So for us, we're working on HAPS,
high altitude platform system devices
with, there's a couple of providers,
you know who they are if you're in the ecosystem.
And so we do believe that HAPS is also
gonna bring some very important breakthroughs
as it relates to the private sector applications
around, again, remote sensing and Earth observation.
So I just wanted to make sure I mentioned those things too.
<v ->Thank you, Rika.</v>
We're gonna jump into a couple more topics,
but I was gonna do a pause now
to see if there's any questions, anything audience wanted
to add on what we've covered so far.
If you do, please raise your hands.
We have lights pointed at our eyes.
It's a little hard to see up.
Okay, we'll move on.
Rika, you alluded to this, part
of the current explosive growth in data centers
and AI/ML applications is
that it's placing some significant strain
on terrestrial networks, computational resources, storage,
power generation, and the like,
how can space-based enabled data centers, compute,
and other solutions,
how can that have essentially a positive, innovative sort
of impact on trying to solve that on the planet,
and also enables space to space
and space to beyond type solutions, which may sound esoteric
and sort of Star Wars now, but may not be as much?
You wanna start with that Rika?
<v ->Yeah, the energy consumption that's needed.</v>
So as I mentioned, when I was at Nvidia
and we were working on the Tegra chip,
first it was GoForce,
which is a discreet GPU on a board in a phone.
And then we moved to an application processor architecture.
The problem was the heat
and energy consumption envelope, which are related,
because when you have this high compute,
that creates a tremendous amount of heat.
So you need energy as well to cool things down.
So there's a lot of innovations happening in data centers
to be able to address that challenge.
But regardless, there is an expectation depending
on who you talk to, which analysts you talked to
around this, that the energy consumption is gonna far
outweigh the ability to provide those energy resources.
So there's some interesting things
that are happening in the nuclear energy space.
So that's coming back up again,
thinking about how we can meet those demands.
But in the meantime, some of the other ideas,
and a couple of interesting startups
that are working on this and VCs that are funding them, is
around the idea of being able
to bring the data center high compute capabilities
into space, because it's kind
of cold up there, most of space.
So except when you get near the sun, but regardless,
and the sun has a part to play in this,
because sun can provide energy, right?
So solar energy, being able to do that.
So there's some interesting work happening
on how do we put sort of these micro data center concepts
that can also have solar panel arrays attached to them.
And if you can angle these data centers in such a way
to have 24 hour access or exposure to solar panel,
now you're starting to be able
to have the idea of heat sink using components
and physics that's beyond me at the moment.
I hope I'll get there soon,
but it's to be able to use the natural situation
in space along with the solar energy supply
to be able to enable the compute that's needed.
And then of course, it's a matter
of thinking about the ground station ecosystem
that also needs to start evolving and taking shape.
And, you know, I just wanna give a plug to Clint
and his team at AWS, you know,
such an easy partner to work with,
because they're so progressive
thinking about what do we do together
to co-innovate around this.
And so I think it really is
about bringing all these players together
that are leaning in to the process.
And with Blue Origin, by the way, of getting ready
to have a milestone month, I'm sure
that Amazon in general is very excited
about what the future is going to hold.
But data centers in space, by some people's estimates,
is going to happen within the next, you know, five
to 10 years potentially.
And so, it starts to relieve some of the demands
around energy and some of the heat issues.
Also from a cost perspective,
there are some calculations that are done.
If you just look up cost of data centers in space,
you'll find some calculations
that have been done about the total cost of ownership
of running data centers in space, is apparently much less
than if you're trying to build it terrestrially.
So we'll see how this all, how the dust settles on it,
but it's a pretty sexy cool area to keep an eye on.
<v ->Yeah, if I can piggyback on that, Rika,</v>
and thanks for the kind words,
and NTT is a wonderful organization to work with as well,
but as we think about data centers in space,
micro data centers, you made a good point earlier.
You know, we shouldn't jump directly to, you know,
we think about a very large scale data center here on Earth
and what it looks like and suddenly we're trying
to lift that into space, that has all sorts
of issues associated with it.
However, when you think about micro data centers,
you could have a single satellite
or a 10 ball constellation of satellites
that could in fact serve the basic function
of a micro data center in space depending
on what the use case is, right?
So you start small based on the use cases
and you grow from there.
And that's focusing on the space
for Earth capabilities that you were talking about.
Now if I turn my lens and I think about space for space,
so the space economy, as an example,
right now today NASA's perseverance Rover is operating
on the surface of Mars and it's beaming data,
And it's being processed on the AWS cloud
so that the rover can be given instructions on where to go
and where to drill and what analysis to do
in its next set of passes.
Think about that, a 300 million mile journey from Mars
to the earth to process the data to send it down
to Mars again, as we grow all these future missions,
again, human encampments on the moon,
human encampments on Mars,
asteroid mining, in-space manufacturing,
we simply cannot afford to port all the data back to Earth
and process it and then push it back to space again.
We're going to have to have cloud computing
and advanced technology capabilities available on orbit.
And so that's what starts to look like micro data centers
on an international space station
or on an Axiom space station, my friends at Axiom,
or amongst the first set of infrastructure
and habitat on the moon as we do human encampments,
how do we store and process data on the surface
of the moon rather than having to port it back?
So these things have a number of areas
where they all tie together
and come back together again, which is really interesting.
Rika also mentioned optical,
which I think is just a really exciting technology,
and we're gonna see the optical industry grow
by leaps and bounds in the coming years.
Not only optical inter satellite links,
but optical space to ground links,
because of the data requirements
and improvements as you described a moment ago.
So that's one that we're very excited about,
but my friend, Dr. Lee, mentioned as well,
direct to device capabilities.
And then you start to think
about the virtualization requirements for direct to device.
And this is where optical and micro data centers
and direct to device and virtualization all comes in,
because we can't live in the same environment in the past
where we hardwired radios to satellites
to ground systems, right?
We won't be able to interop from GEO to LEO to MEO
from IR to SAR and every, from satcom.
And so we're going to have to continue
to develop more software-defined radios,
software-defined networks,
software-defined network management,
software integration systems,
and we're working a number of those at AWS.
So those are some of the underlying technologies
that are gonna be required.
And then finally, my friend, Rika, mentioned digital twin.
I just wanna make a quick note on digital twin.
We believe digital twin is going to be critical
to managing all of these networks for the future.
You're talking about making a digital twin of the earth,
which can be powerful in so many ways,
but now think about the micro data centers,
think about the satellite connectivity,
think about the earth to space systems,
the ground link systems,
all the satellites that'll be interconnected.
And how do you simulate that? How do you virtualize that?
How do you visualize that? How do you orchestrate that?
How do you optimize that for optical interface
amongst all those device?
And so we're doing a lot of work building out digital twins
of network capacity that's modeling between constellations
and ground stations, and ground systems,
and multi-data paths,
so that we can leverage digital twin capability
to make the best decisions about how to build
and operate those complex multi systems.
And that's really exciting too.
<v ->Collision avoidance.</v>
<v ->Collision avoidance, I mean, again, when we talk</v>
about there's some 9,000 satellites on orbit today,
and we're gonna have 50 to 100 satellites on orbit
by 2030 depending on the study, the sheer magnitude,
and by the way, time, latency requirements, right?
You can't afford, when you quadruple the number
of satellites on orbit, you can't afford
to do all your orbital deconfliction on the ground in two
to four hours when you're talking about that number
of satellites suddenly operating
in essentially the same space.
Now space is big, I get it.
But we have to be really careful
about space flight management,
if we're gonna ensure space is sustainable
for the future and ensure sustainability.
<v ->Yeah, if anyone's flying United back or anytime soon,</v>
there's a documentary called "Wild Wild Space."
I highly recommend you watch it,
and please don't start freaking out
when you hear about the Kessler effect.
I'll just leave that there. So.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->Thank you, Rika.</v>
<v ->Space is still big, but it's gonna get smaller</v>
and smaller as we proliferate more
and more satellites on orbit,
and digital twins, virtualization, network management,
reduced latency and on orbit processing in many ways,
automated threat detection,
automated collision maneuver avoidance,
are gonna be key to the future.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
For those of you interested in, you know,
the reality or soon to be reality
of in-space processing data centers,
look up a company called Lumen Orbit.
Look up the EU's program called ASCEND,
which is a live study with Thales Alenia Space
to see how quickly this can be deployed.
We're out of time, but I would like to wrap up
with one very short answer from each one of you.
You're in Vegas. This is where people make wishes.
Take some gambles, things happen, they don't.
Your wishlist, a single technology
or a single innovation that you think will be a game changer
for the role of space and satellite
in enabling compute data centers or the cloud.
Let's start with you Dr. Lee. Short answer.
<v ->Short answer is,</v>
how can I say?
How can we just try
to design and manufacture in the new rocket
to launch the in-space data center, yeah?
<v ->All right, so better, cheaper,</v>
more powerful access to space.
<v ->Right.</v>
<v ->All right, Rika?</v>
<v ->I think it has to be an agentic AI touchstone that is able</v>
to parse all the data that's gonna come from remote sensing,
Earth observation, that will tell industries and companies
and governments how to manage for climate resilience.
<v ->I agree with both of those answers.</v>
I think those are wonderful answers.
My head initially went to what we're spending a lot
of time on at AWS, and that's generative AI
or generative artificial intelligence.
We are in early days of AI, just basic AI, right?
Traditional AI, we're in early days, and it blows me away.
It's extraordinary the ways that NTT, and Contec,
and other companies are starting
to use capabilities like AI, ML,
and now we think about generative AI,
which is AI on steroids
and the ability to develop wholly new concepts
and thought processes with our artificial intelligence.
That's super exciting for what it portends for the future.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
Well, audience, please join me in thanking Sunghee, Rika,
and Clint for this wonderful panel.