<v Sherry>Welcome to the Globetrotter's Guide</v>
to Tech Travel.
My name is Sherry Huss and I'm head of community at Freeman.
Freeman is a global leader in events
and we like to make moments matter.
Today we wanna talk about making moments matter in travel
and have a great panel here to share what they're up to.
But you know, I think it's a combination of everything
from technology, how's that gonna work?
To seamless and frictionless travel.
And we've got a generational overlay
and a whole host of other things.
So without further ado, let me introduce Dr. Richie.
Call him Dr. K, and he's going to give a little bit
about his perspective about what's going on
in the travel world.
Oops, there you go.
<v ->All right. Good morning.</v>
Thank you for coming.
So my name is Dr. Richard Karaburun.
I teach in hospitality school at NYU.
I predominantly teach entrepreneurship,
hospitality technology, and trans, and travel, and tourism.
So our semester is 14 weeks.
So I'm gonna actually give you
what we teach in 14 weeks in the next five minutes.
And I'm not gonna charge you $7,000,
which is our tuition for this class.
So that's basically this whole conference is all
about revolutionizing every single industry.
So we're gonna focus on travel,
and what are the technologies, and the trends basically.
So I'm just gonna go quickly on what trends are.
So these are some of the trends that we see in the industry.
And one is all about experiential travel, right?
So with the technology, how technology is going to help
with the experiences.
We used to say data is the king, cash is the king.
Now we say experience is the new currency.
So it's all about that.
What experiences do you actually want your customers to do?
This is in every single industry, by the way.
Not only travel, education, healthcare, et cetera.
The second one, we talk a lot about the sustainable tourism
in the age of AI, even now.
And it was very nice for me to see AI
and sustainability together and the all aisles
of the convention center this week.
So I'm sure you're gonna see
that from the panelists as well.
That every single vertical in the travel business, airlines,
hotels, OTAs, they're all talking about sustainability.
And this became very critical issue after the COVID as well.
We always say BC and AC. Not before COVID, after COVID.
So we have one planet, one planet only.
So that's really the case.
The one of the thing, what COVID also did is
the expedited digitalization of the society.
So digital first experiences.
So how you basically digitize the entire customer journey.
And again, you are gonna see from my esteemed panelists,
that how they do that when you actually travel.
This is again, the case for every single industry,
anywhere from education into travel as well.
The other is all about the cultural
and the generational issues.
And you see in every single panel I go,
we've talked about Gen Zs and millennials,
they're now in the workforce
and they have the money to spend.
How are you actually basically catering
that generation as well?
The one of the most important thing
that I think during COVID, people realize death is real.
We can die anytime.
And then that wellness, and wellness travel, and health
and wellness, and bleisure.
Some people hate that word,
business slash leisure altogether.
So a lot of the travel suppliers are actually talking
about how they can actually add,
and I'm sure you're gonna be hearing this from RD as well,
that they do great Hyatt hotels
and similar to other hotel chains as well,
everyone's into wellness as well here.
So the key, we actually talk a lot
about this personalization versus hyper-personalization.
We used to talk 10 years ago,
we used to call this customization.
Customized travel, customization.
And it was just a general market segmentation.
If you're a millennial making over $60,000 living
in the east coast, ah, let's actually customize
the travel, travel offerings.
Now what AI did is a great tool that hyper-personalization,
basically using all the data that we actually,
the hotel suppliers or the airlines are gathering it.
How can you actually hyper-personalize
the experience of travel?
Whether it's the airfare,
whether it's the, you know, the hotels.
So that's just really the case.
So ask yourself in your companies as well
that how do you hyper-personalize?
Do you use AI to hyper-personalize the cases anywhere?
I mean we spent what in by now,
like almost 48 hours in this hotel in the rooms.
They should have tremendous amount of data.
What I like, what I dislike about my hotel stay.
Do they actually use that for my next stay?
And unfortunately not that everybody is actually doing that.
So I put a couple of the examples on this as well.
Some travel suppliers are ahead as well.
Some are just getting that.
But really you're gonna be hearing a lot more
because the new generation demands
the hyper-personalization as well.
The other one, Sherry mentioned "frictionless" travel.
We talk a lot in the classes about the customer journey
from the dreaming, booking, pre-travel,
during travel, post travel.
So, and now everything is supposed to be connected from Uber
to airlines, to hotels, the restaurant as well.
So the, again, the new generation is really demanding
frictionless travel during their travel time.
So again, ask yourself, do you, what do you do about it?
AI, I always say 800 pound gorilla in the room,
even in CES and it started a couple of years ago.
People think AI is the future.
I say, "No, AI actually is the present."
And look where we are.
We are already starting with chatbots
and virtual assistants.
Everybody's getting better and better at it.
Predictive analysis, some actually companies
are using greatly how to predict the demand,
how to predict the prices.
Dynamic pricing is the key right now that I've seen a lot
of AI companies on the convention center talking
about the dynamic pricing and again.
How can you actually help the environment
with sustainability using AI basically as well?
And I'm gonna move, be moving the next emerging trends.
Basically it's all space tourism is a big thing.
I've seen some companies over here.
It's right now it's very niche.
I'm waiting about 15 to 20 years,
especially with Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos
with all the billions that they have.
And I think space tourism is going to be
a mass market product about 20 years.
Metaverse, a lot of the companies are actually using this
with extended reality, especially with all the tools
that you guys are seeing in CES that's only gonna help that
and that's gonna make the smart hotels
in our business as well.
That's basically even the hotels
are now integrating with Amazons and all the Alexas
for the voice controlled room settings and and many more.
And sustainability.
And again, AI can talk about high drive program
incorporating environmental sustainability
into operations as well.
This is just really a great tool.
So key takeaways is hyper-personalization is the key.
And again, ask yourself what do you do about it?
Frictionless journey.
Are you really actually giving the frictionless journey
for all your customers?
Again, pre-purchase, post-purchase.
And AI expanding the role.
AI is a tool that how you can actually use this.
And sustainability and innovative leadership.
And that comes from the top.
Some of the CEOs in our industry are really pushing that,
and that's just really one of the key things as well.
I think I covered it all in 14 weeks, in five minutes, so.
<v ->Excellent, excellent. Thank you so much Richie.</v>
And now I'd like to introduce Heather Dahl,
who's the CEO of Indicio.
Heather?
<v ->Thank you.</v>
One of the areas that we talk about when we talk
about frictionless, we talk about AI,
we talk about what's next in travel and hospitality,
but the lifeblood under that is the traveler, the passenger.
It's actually the identity.
And it's not only the identity of the actual person doing
the traveling who are your guests,
it's the identity of the organizations
in which that person engages with.
When you think about fraud or phishing,
how do they know that they're really buying a ticket
from your organization's website?
And that's where we see the future
of how do you remove friction,
and create this frictionless, seamless experience
when you have all these different centralized ways of data?
So what I'm gonna talk about is maybe seen as some
of the most unglamorous part of this story,
but is actually the linchpin that brings this together.
You're also emerging in a world where we talk
about this frictionless experience,
but you also have growing regulations around the world
that are prohibiting centralized databases,
centralized ways of storing that are prohibiting
how you gather and how much information you can gather.
So then it becomes more difficult if you're depending
on data masses in order to make your decisions
and make your offers.
Then you throw in AI, where are they getting that data?
How are they getting that data?
And are you just making faster, more personalized decisions
with bad data?
So that's not gonna achieve your goal.
One of the things that we can see is that we are moving
to a world of a Digital Travel Credential.
This is called a DTC, an IKO,
Digital Travel Credential Type 1 for the nerds
in the room.
What this does is think of it
as your paper passport for instance.
But instead of holding the paper, you have the freedom
of your passport because it is stored in your device.
It is not stored in a centralized database run
by another party.
And that DTC that is held in your phone is trusted
just like the passport you carry with you.
This DTC Type 1 is creating
the seamless cross border experiences.
In fact, just about a month ago we worked with Delta
in using the DTC Type 1 to facilitate seamless travel
from Atlanta to Aruba.
What happened was the passengers were able to clear borders
before they even left for the airport.
And when they arrived in Aruba,
they used a biometric that the traveler provided directly
to the government of Aruba
and cleared the border upon arrival in about eight seconds.
That reduced it down significantly from what you do.
But the key here is all this is done privacy-by-design.
It's the traveler who is holding their information now.
We're also moving to a world to bring your own biometrics.
So the biometric token, that's so 2024.
Bring your own biometrics allows you to have the ability
to obtain and verify a person without holding
the biometric in a centralized database.
This means there are no tokens, no centralized storage,
it's shared by consent, and it meets GDPR.
So if you don't have the EU digital identity wallet
on your bingo card for 2025, 2026,
I would add that because that will surprise you.
Just like I think for much of us outside the EU
on GDPR one day we didn't think about it,
and the next day it was everything.
Same thing's gonna happen with your digital identity wallet.
So you wanna be ready for it.
The key here is with the DTC is
that it works with any system.
That you don't get into locked in proprietary platforms,
that you have to stay within that system.
There is interoperability through the protocols
and specification of a Digital Travel Credential.
And I will also say that the Digital Travel Credential is
a credential that other industries are deploying now.
This is not specific to travel, it grows across finance,
education, agriculture are all moving to this DTC.
When you think about your travel right now,
from the time you book your ticket
to the time you sit in your hotel room,
you go through more than 11 presentations of identity,
or something about yourself.
That is exhausting.
And the how, if this continues, how do you create
that frictionless experience when you don't remove 11 steps?
When you depart some countries you are sharing your identity
from the time you showed up at the airport
to the time you sit in your seat.
More than 23 times. This is what the friction is.
So until we solve this identity and create systems
that are interoperable, we're never going to have
that seamless journey that we talk about.
And the fact is, is you can't reset a face.
And this is what makes biometrics
and the reliance on biometric tokens for instance,
or the centralized storage of biometrics by enterprises,
especially concerning as we move forward.
When you read Gartner, you look at court rulings
that are coming outta European Union, we're starting to see
that biometrics are becoming decentralized.
What I mean by that, is you carry your biometrics
in your wallet and you share a template in which
to verify upon consent.
And that's the world we're moving to is that when we travel
the seamless journey, when we engage with chatbots,
when we use AI, that we're the ones in control providing
our information directly with consent.
So in a way, companies no longer have
to anticipate what we want because they collected data
on us over the years.
We can tell them how we feel right now.
What we need in the moment,
and how they can serve us better based
on the experience that we're in.
And that's ultimately I think all of our goals
in travel and hospitality.
<v Audience Member>Woo!</v>
<v ->Wow, that's great. That was excellent.</v>
Thank you so much.
Next up we have Ranjan Goswami, who is at Delta
and is the SVP of Customer Experience Design.
Ooh, that's a big one. And I'll just take a moment.
How many of you attended the Delta keynote the other day?
Pretty amazing, right?
And I would say if the others that you haven't attended,
you should actually go and check it out online
because it pretty much, like I told Ranjan, they nailed it.
Just everything from talk about experience
and then hitting all the key points.
So Ranjan, take it away.
<v ->Thanks Sherry. Well first thank you all for being here.</v>
We're thrilled to celebrate our centennial,
our 100 years starting with this kickoff at CES.
And if you haven't seen our presentation from the sphere,
please do tune in.
Dr. K. I'm really happy, I'm relieved actually,
as you went through all of your big takeaways,
I think we hit on a lot of them for the next 100 years
of travel and we couldn't be more excited.
Even though we are 100, we are actually invigorated
about the innovation that's before us,
and everything Heather also discussed.
So I actually thought what we would do is
just start real quick with a clip from our CES presentation.
<v Narrator>Tools, and customize your food</v>
and beverage experience.
Then explore your recommendations from Delta concierge
to take the hassle out of planning,
and enjoy your destination as soon as you land.
When it's almost time to touch down,
arrival mode makes the moments after landing, a breeze.
Get directions through the airport
and make sure your Rideshare is ready when you are.
Now, sit back, relax and thank you again for choosing Delta.
<v ->So the idea here is how do you create a true experience?</v>
Yes, we've gotta get you from point A to point B on time
with your bags every single time.
We're the most reliable airline to do that,
but you can make the experience that much more enriching.
And we have customers half a million to 700,000 a day
on our airplanes spending at least two
and a half hours with us.
And what we believe we can do is engage them meaningfully
in a hyper-personalized way through our onboard environment.
So Delta two years ago came to CES
and launched free Wi-Fi to all of our members.
We're now at 730 airplanes with free Wi-Fi.
And what we essentially did was created two new channels
for our customers to interact with us.
Live, logged in, member channels.
The first of course is through your pad device
where you log in and you get to Delta Sync Wi-Fi,
which not only gives you the internet,
but gives you all these experiences to also take part in
because of a member.
We just launched that YouTube is gonna join
that partnership, bevy of partnerships,
where you'll be able to enjoy all of YouTube premium
while you're on your flight, no matter where you are,
and for 24 hours, so that portability as well.
But what you just saw in that video is taking
the screens that we have.
We have 165,000 screens.
More than any airline in the world.
And making them smart screens.
So Delta Sync seatback allows you to log in as a member to
that screen and now that screen with hyper-personalization,
and with AI, is gonna help you make the best of all
that content, help you plan your arrival mode.
So this is really a journey of the aircraft being a platform
for digital engagement.
It's a journey for us where two new channels join
our Fly Delta app, which is the ultimate personalization app
and companion for our customers.
And ultimately I think the seamlessness between the app,
Delta Sync Wi-Fi, Delta seatback,
all of these things that, and to your point Dr. K.,
we have such an opportunity to learn about our customers.
They spend so much time with us.
And then you put AI on top of this,
and essentially taking friction out of every step,
and creating a delighted experience in every step
in its place.
So super excited to talk more about that today.
<v ->Excellent, thank you Ranjan.</v>
And now I'd like to introduce Arlie Sisson from Hyatt,
and Arlie is the SVP Global Head of Digital and that's big.
So Arlie.
<v ->(laughing) That's very kind, thank you.</v>
So thrilled to be here and Dr. K.
and I get to partner on a ton,
not only in terms of our education programs at Hyatt,
but also we had a recent publication published I think
just yesterday on the neurodivergent traveler
and their experiences.
So I'm so thrilled to be here.
And I would say the innovation that the two
of you lead are inspirations to myself
and team every single day.
So thank you also for sharing that.
We have a quick video and I'm gonna start with that.
I think it very eloquently illustrates not only
the antithesis of what we want, you know,
everyone to think about in terms of as you move forward
in travel, but also I would say the excitement,
the care that we want to bring to our guests.
Because as my panelists also just described,
there is absolutely a ton that you could do.
But what should you do?
And I think that the video I'll show you here
is very illustrative of what we are trying to accomplish.
I love that video 'cause I think it clearly illustrates
a lot of what Dr. K. had as well in his opening slide.
So can we personalize things? Absolutely.
How are we gonna start doing that?
And we'll get into that in a few questions
I know we have prepped and so I'll save that.
But I think it's also about what do travelers want?
And what do they want from certain companies
at certain points?
And we take that in a very valuable,
I would say, deep perspective way at Hyatt.
We make sure that care being the center of everything
that we do.
We do that in a way that feels comfortable, trusted,
because we have point A to point B,
but we are also where people stay, right?
When they're in these places.
And so we take that very seriously,
both from a security perspective,
but also from the experiences that we build.
And frictionless to us just doesn't mean being able
to book a room.
It means the entire journey.
And so what you're seeing there is even outside of,
we call it day to day instead of stay to stay,
and how are we making sure that we're prevalent
in people's lives where they want us
and we're also enriching exciting experiences
to them along the way.
<v ->Great. Well where do we start?</v>
There's lots of questions.
I think the biggest one that I have is security.
Like I have, there's so much data about me out there.
I can never remember what was my password? Where's this?
I have to go and look it up.
How is everyone feeling about security?
You know, it's, yeah, I'll just stop there.
How's everyone feeling about like cybersecurity,
and where is my data, and where's it going?
<v ->I can just say that we call this in our research</v>
as paradoxical Ps, personalization, and privacy.
And this has been discussed a lot.
And then that's why if you look at it,
many of the universities are actually opening a Master's
in cybersecurity.
Cybersecurity is one of the highest growing career track.
I tell my students to consider that as well.
And there's a huge difference.
I mean our generation versus my students' generation.
They actually don't care about their data.
Their data is already everywhere with TikTok
and everything as well.
They trust. And I think the trust is the key here.
Trust breeds transparency, we always say.
And I think as long as the brands like Hyatt
and Delta are actually creating
that trust and that's gonna actually,
that paradoxical P is gonna disappear
and definitely with the digital identity coming in.
And that's gonna actually take care of this as well.
<v ->No, I like that.</v>
I actually do think brands
and trust are gonna become even more important.
So we can park that.
But actually Heather, what's your thought on security?
<v ->The world of hoarding data is coming to an end.</v>
Think of it as you're going to Marie Kondo here.
You do not need to take the data that you used to
from your customers because your customers are going
to be carrying their own data.
And what that does is reduces your security risk.
Why are you sitting on all the data you don't need
on a regular basis and creating yourself as a target,
as an organization?
You don't need to do that anymore.
You're going to have the ability
with a verifiable credential or a Digital Travel Credential
to use selective disclosure,
and only take the information you need
to make a business decision about your guest.
SITA is leading the effort in the travel
and hospitality space around a Digital Travel Credential
in creating specifications
in which everyone can participate.
In fact, they recently signed a collaboration agreement
with IDEMIA talking about how technically you can do this.
But ultimately security that we're doing now,
it doesn't work, it's not protecting people.
Younger people are also traveling with paper.
Well they're not traveling with paper
because they end up in places without their paper passport
asking, "Can't you just have my mom send it to you?"
We have an entire generation that does not understand why
for trust in travel you need a plastic card
or a piece of paper.
So how do we create the security and trust
in a digital mechanism that these new generations
that are coming into experience can take with them?
And that's what organizations like CDA, or IDEMIA,
or those that have moved to the Digital Travel Credential,
and are collaborating with Delta and hotels
to bring those online because ultimately
it delivers far more security than what we experience today.
<v ->Great. Thank you Heather.</v>
Ranjan?
<v ->You know, I think a couple of things.</v>
First, giving customers the choice to opt in is fundamental.
And everything that we do really focuses on that.
Let the customer choose how much they want you
to know about them and how much they want you to use that.
The second thing that's really interesting though,
especially with Gen Z and Gen Y,
is there's an orientation to expect personalization.
And what that means, therefore is you need to use data
to create relevant experiences for them.
But that interest is in the almost 90%.
So how do we meet that expectation while still being secure?
And then I'm gonna mirror what Heather is saying.
You know, when we launched digital ID here
in the United States, we were the first airline
to launch it with the TSA.
Notice that we're not storing the pictures.
The way digital ID works is you have to show an ID,
you just use your face to go through TSA.
And because you have a passport number on file
with your Delta SkyMiles profile, we're able to run
that passport as your ID against the CBP database,
and see if there's a match between the photo we take of you
and the photo on your passport.
We don't store that photo, right?
But we're enabling a more seamless experience for you.
So how you design the process
and the product without having to capture the data
but run it up against other existing data sources.
That's another piece of it.
So I think the key for us is customer choice, opting in,
and designing experiences that are relevant,
and then designing them in a way
that doesn't hoard the information.
<v Sherry>Wow, that's great.</v>
<v ->The only thing I'd add, 'cause I absolutely agree,</v>
is the data stewardship behind all of this
and only taking what you need.
I think in the beginning it was a lot of like,
"Just take it all because why not?"
And I don't think that
that's brands' approaches anymore, right?
One, there's too much risk associated with storing
that kind of data in that mass.
And then you're, as we were just discussing,
that's your job now to protect it.
So truly focusing in on the aspects and the assets
that you need within that is absolutely.
I think we're, you'll see not just obviously Hyatt hotels,
but all brands pushing,
because that's just the more efficient way
to also just enact business day to day.
<v ->Great. Thank you.</v>
So when tech works, it's great, right?
I think we all agree on that.
And when it doesn't work, hmm, not so great.
I have to say, my experience traveling here,
I didn't talk to one person at the hotel.
I downloaded the app, I went in, I went to a kiosk,
I put in my room number, thought for sure made a key.
Thought, "For sure this isn't gonna work, right?" You know?
Hmm. Traveling up there, it worked,
Got a note, "Ready to check out Sherry?" Boom, same thing.
I didn't have any human interaction,
and I'm not sure what I felt about that.
So I'm curious what everyone thinks about that
because I think that's gonna be one of the key things
that we need to consider for the future.
<v ->But as Ranjan said, that's optional, right?</v>
So you chose to not to talk to people.
So we are always talking about human touch and technology.
So as long as the companies can actually give that choice.
And then again, new generation,
after 10 hour flights, 16 hour flights
and they might not wanna talk to the receptionist
or even wait in line 10 minutes, 15 minutes.
So I do the same thing.
And you can actually order your quiet car in Uber or Lyft.
And that's just really the choice.
And I think they should, you have a choice,
you had a choice, you can just wait in line,
and talk to the receptionist, and then do that.
So I think that's the key is
the supplier should actually give that choice.
Do you want have that frictionless, no human touch?
You can still talk to them if you like,
but I think that's just really the case.
<v ->Right, no, that's fair.</v>
And actually I could have stood in line,
and I actually, I like technology so I wanted
to see if it would work, but fair enough.
Heather?
<v ->And we're moving into a world where you</v>
have peer-to-peer connections that can stay persistent
after you leave and continue that relationship.
So if anything, you're moving into a world
of stronger digital relationships based
on actual information that you've provided, consent.
But in your experience, why are you traveling?
It's probably not to talk with a check-in.
It's probably not to spend time trying to get a room key.
You're traveling for the experience of the hotel,
to engage with the restaurant, or the spa, or the excursion.
And what you just described actually gave you more time
to do and engage with the people you want to engage with,
and the reason why you're traveling
and spending money.
<v Sherry>Fair enough.</v>
So if anything, you got a higher value
when you depart the property
because you're spent that extra 10
to 1 hour doing what you wanna do.
<v Sherry>That's right. That's right.</v>
<v Ranjan>You know, we're in the business</v>
of bringing people together physically.
We've brought billions of people together for 100 years.
So we believe living life in person
with human connection is fundamental, truly.
The second thing that's really interesting, I think Arlie,
you and I probably share this, is the number two thing
besides fundamental on time that people,
our customers care about, is actually the connection
with our people, our Delta people and the customer.
No customer wants to feel like a number.
And when we carry half a million to 700,000 people a day,
there is a high risk of people feeling like a number, right?
And so where we find personalization to be so powerful is
when a flight attendant can seek out a customer,
and celebrate their Million Miler status,
or thank them for their business,
or acknowledge a service failure, right?
These are really important human connections that again,
the data and personalization enable.
So I think there's a, there's two things here.
Sure you have the choice to avoid that interaction,
but when that interaction happens,
your people need to know about that customer, their context,
and meet them where they are with the right set
of empathy and engagement.
'Cause that's what people will talk about
when they get through their trip.
"I had this incredible experience
with this flight attendant.
She or he did X, Y, Z for me.
They knew me, they understood what I wanted."
And so how do we balance that while
of course giving customers back time,
and making things more frictionless and travel free.
<v ->I started at the front desk, that was my first like</v>
I would say, exposure to the hospitality team.
And so I started on property and I would say even the joy
that I feel now doing my job, empowering,
and building tools for our colleagues on property comes
from that experience of mine
and being able to engage with guests.
And you will remember someone's name at the restaurant.
You'll remember your server's name.
You'll remember Jessica who checked me in
at the front desk yesterday at the Venetian.
So you remember these people, in places, in time.
I think having the optionality to do things
in a more expedited way?
Absolutely.
And actually our research shows
that we've conducted ourselves
that pre-COVID up, and up, and up.
No one wanted to see anyone.
We wanted to go, we wanna do, you know, seamless check-in.
We wanna go right to our room.
We wanted to have our mobile keys.
Post-COVID, a huge resurgence of wanting to speak
to someone, wanting to ask questions,
wanting to get insights about the locale
that you're visiting.
And so the pendulum I think will continue to switch.
So as long as you have that optionality,
and you're building products again
that is frictionless for those
and what they want to do in the moment,
your brand will be winning.
I think removing all person from that
I think will never be the true answer.
And I think that that's where care
and empathy absolutely merges in.
Because whether it's a service recovery
or a special moment that you can help make,
or you learn something as a colleague to make
that event even more special,
that's really what we're here to do and make happen.
<v ->Oh great.</v>
I think I shared this with a couple of folks on the panel,
but I've been traveling for over 30 years
in the event space.
And obviously again, we all traveled to get here.
Pre-9/11, and again, we were doing a big tour,
an Oracle world tour, 25 cities, 26 weeks.
We would get to the airport 25 minutes before our flight
and the reservationist would say, "Can I see your ID?"
Pull it out.
"Did you pack your bag?" "Yes."
"Did anyone give you anything?" "No."
Boom. Right?
I mean, look how things have changed in 25 years.
I can't imagine the future and I'm so happy.
And actually even in the Delta keynote,
there are a few things.
I like the augmented reality way finding.
'Cause again, the worst thing is you get off a plane,
"Wait, where am I going? I'm tired."
But man, that would be killer even here at CES.
And then what I loved the most was the predictions
about the future and actually a panel that with children,
what children envision.
Things like ROBLOX or wings that, you know,
wings that expand or contract or sustainable materials.
So maybe everyone could give a little bit of like,
what do you think is gonna happen, or what are your?
I mean, I'm completely optimistic
about the future of travel.
I think that we're on the right direction.
I love everything that you're all doing.
I love the students that we're really getting them involved
in the future and in, and by 2030, you know,
70% of the workforce is gonna be millennials and Gen Zs.
They're gonna have a big say on all of this.
So maybe the last few minutes
we could maybe like predictions
or things that you'd like to share that you haven't shared.
And I don't know if we can open it up for,
if anyone has questions too, feel free to jump in.
But maybe we could use the last few minutes for that.
<v ->I think my prediction is not even prediction,</v>
it's reality now.
In the future, even now, AI is gonna be part of our lives.
Whether you like it or not.
So AI is the key big part of our lives.
And then it just, my only fear is right now wild, wild west
who's going to basically regulate AI?
Right now, people talk about AI
as we've talked about internet in 1990s, right?
It's exactly the same that the regulation of AI is
that where I'm actually kind
of curious what's gonna happen on that.
EU is far ahead of America and Asia in this case.
So I'm looking forward for governmental involvement
in terms of regulating AI.
But AI is there, is going to be a big part of our lives.
<v ->Yeah, fair enough.</v>
<v ->That you're moving into the center of your travel journey.</v>
That you are the one that are gonna be in a position
to provide information and your preferences.
And so frictionless travel,
you are going to be the center of that.
And there's tremendous collaboration
across the industry, across technology,
airlines, hotels, even global regulations,
and especially in the technology world
to really bring this together.
So as we're moving into this world of AI,
the AI is powered by you and the information that you want
to share about yourself.
<v ->Oh, well I'm gonna say I love your BYOB,</v>
so bring your own biometrics.
<v ->Bring your own biometric.</v>
<v ->I think that's something we should mandate</v>
for going forward.
<v ->You know, I think we all agree on this panel</v>
that travel is a gift.
Every time you travel, you learn,
you experience the world, it's fantastic.
Travel can also be stressful.
If you think about planning your trip
and coordinating all the things you need to coordinate.
If you think about showing up at an airport you don't know
and navigating through it.
How to navigate the whole process can be stressful.
And I think in the future it that stress,
if we do our jobs properly, will go away.
And people will be delighted at every single stage.
So imagine having a conversation with the Delta concierge
about the trip you wanna have.
And you're not having to go and search
in five different Google searches
and take all these notes down,
and figure out how to do all these multiple bookings.
But you're having that conversation
and that becomes a seamless thing.
Then you get to the airport
and someone is helping you navigate through
at the right time, everything you need to know,
and offering you opportunities along the way.
And then you get onboard the airplane,
and you've got thousands of hours of content,
and they help you, based on your interest, to utilize
that time in the best way that you want in
that connected environment.
And then they help you on the journey on the ground, right?
We showed yesterday this cool notion of Uber, Joby
and Delta working.
So imagine doing an address to address search
on Delta.com, right?
I think that's the future is taking all the stress out,
making what is an amazing experience, delightful as you go
through the entire journey from inspiration of your trip
all the way to the execution of getting to that destination.
<v ->Yeah, and the only layer I'll say</v>
is like adding personalization throughout that.
So as an experiential,
are you in different modes while you travel?
I travel with three children under six often
when I'm not traveling by myself.
And that is a very different mode for me, right?
Very different shoes, very different mindset.
So I think in that sense, that's where you'll start to see
as well, the layers of what you need
to accomplish in that moment.
And so for me on this trip,
it's get to the hotel seamlessly, quickly.
Have different things along the way.
Be able to bypass with the most time possible
and get into the work mode.
In different modes, it's completely different.
And I think whether that starts with an offer,
whether that starts with the correct destination
of where you're staying, whether that states exactly
what seating arrangement you need while going through this.
All of that together allows us to be more proactive
and put these experiences in front of our guests
to have a better experience along the way,
and achieve that delightful intent.
<v ->Excellent. Well we have about a minute left.</v>
Any quick questions, comment?
Yes.
<v Chase>My name is Chase</v>
and nice to hear your presentation.
I think one of the partnerships I saw
that was missing at the Delta 100 was
if there could be a partnership with Delta Hyatt.
I know there's already a Delta hotel somewhere,
but I see that when event activations are being done,
technology can go a longer way that from the time
I'm stopping at the airport to checking into a hotel,
I should be able to have a brief
of what is happening at an event.
If I need to order some grocery. Like CES is overwhelming.
And I would like to see, like from next year,
travel companies can also start working with event partners
to say, "Okay, how do we make this easy for delegates
who are coming out of the country to be able to be aware
of what is on ground and how we can support them?"
Thank you.
<v ->Excellent.</v>
Well, what I'm gonna say is you've got
the best panel up here and these folks
have been spending every day leading and innovating.
And so I'm sure that they'll take your your words to heart.
Yes?
<v ->[Audience Member 2] Yeah, I'm just curious about,</v>
you know, the whole idea that the digital nomad,
the person who's traveling all the time.
Do you see a rise in that percentage
or just trying to make it very just bleisure,
but just not living anywhere, living in hotels?
Do you see that at all?
<v ->We do and we have specific programs.</v>
I think Dr. K. actually mentioned one,
which is called "Together by Hyatt" or "Work from Hyatt."
And so we did have a lot of that.
I would say the continuation of that program still
in existence today and seeing great responses,
which is, "I want to be able to go to The Bahamas,
I'm going to work online for a week,
and I need a different mode."
Like I was mentioning before, to be able to accomplish that.
And then I will have two weeks of vacation post that,
and that'll all be within the same contained environment.
So absolutely.
And I think the programs around
that was a direct reflection of us listening.
So your question just now, we listened to our guests
as we went through specifically the pandemic,
and what needs they were having change,
and we responded with programming around that,
and it's been immensely successful.
<v ->You know, and just going back to Chase's question,</v>
I think there is so much choice that it is overwhelming.
You don't even know how to go through Netflix
or YouTube's library of content or what to go do at CES.
And this is where personalization can come in,
and we can help you based on what we know about you,
what you've shared with us.
Serve up recommendations that are far more curated.
And I think this is where AI has such an opportunity
to help travelers all over the world make the best
of the limited time they have at a destination.
So it's thanks for the push on that.
<v ->Great and then I think one more question back in the back.</v>
<v ->[Audience Member 3] Yeah, so first of all,</v>
great panelists.
I just wanted to echo what Ranjan was saying
because you know, being employed, let's say,
at the training center, we wanna make sure
that all of us are empowered in using AI
to personalize that service.
So every moment matters (speaking faintly).
<v ->Oh, that's great.</v>
Well, you know, that actually adds a whole nother overlay
on this too, about even training our employees on AI.
I know at Freeman we've started
actually doing AI round tables
and getting people to not be afraid of it.
And as Dr K. said, I mean, you're already using it,
it's in your world.
But really kind of pulling that out,
and I don't know, last question, or comment on that one?
<v ->One of the first places we're gonna deploy AI is actually</v>
at our reservation call centers to arm our specialists with,
when you get all these questions,
and they've gotta go into seven or eight different systems,
let the Delta concierge have an employee-facing version
of it and help them answer those questions faster,
to give time back to the customer.
And also allow the specialist to really spend time
on connecting with the customer, right?
And being hyper relevant.
So I think that the next CES we'll learn a lot more about
how we're using AI agents to help our own people navigate,
be smarter, understand context.
<v ->I agree.</v>
We have three major segments we're looking at, right?
And I have the bespoke privilege of being over,
not only obviously all of our guest-facing tools
that you all use every day, our customer-facing tools
if you're booking events, but also our colleague tools.
And so I think watching that arc of the empowerment,
we always say from bellman to CEO will be empowered by this.
Now, whether or not they need to be trained
on what an LLM is, no, right.
Can they feel empowered because they have better information
than ever and they know that your name is Dr. K.
and you wanna be called Dr. K. instead of Richie,
and what that means to you?
Absolutely.
Right, and I think that that's where we get really excited
about the personalization that we can offer.
<v ->AI is really the empowerment of personalization.</v>
That's really key because authenticity is the currency
of the future.
And you face a world where AI becomes an easy way just
for everyone to make the same decision,
everyone to say the same thing.
But it's how you empower yourself with that information
to create an authentic response and experience.
<v ->Excellent.</v>
Well, I think before, it's been zero here for a number
of minutes on our countdown timer, but thank you all.
You've been a great audience.
Thank the panel, you're excellent and keep on innovating.
I'd also like to thank Robin Raskin and her team
from The Virtual Events Group and Carrie and whatnot.
Maybe we'll see you all next year
and I think we'll probably be around too
if you'd like to actually ask any questions.
So enjoy your time at CES,
and hopefully your travels will be seamless.
<v ->Thank you for moderating.</v>