<v ->Hi, everyone.</v>
I hope you're all enjoying your time at CES so far.
I know I am.
My name is Cassie McGrath.
I'm a reporter with "Healthcare Brew",
and I'll have our panelists
introduce themselves in a moment.
We're going to be talking about
regenerative medicine this morning.
<v ->Hi, everyone, my name's Jason Haider.</v>
I'm the founder and CEO of Xenco Medical.
We are a orthopedic and spinal technology company.
We have a wide portfolio of technologies
ranging from preoperative planning software
to postoperative monitoring software
to biomimetic implants.
And I'm very excited to talk about
regenerative medicine with you all today.
<v Cassie>Thank you.</v>
<v ->Yes, hi, everybody.</v>
I'm Veerle Dhaenens.
I'm the general manager for global therapy innovation
at Terumo Blood and Cell Technologies.
At our company,
we believe in the power of blood and cells
to bring better treatment
and better outcomes for patients.
In fact, we see blood and cells as having healing power,
and this is going close together
with the topic of today
in speaking about regenerative medicine.
Looking forward to it.
<v ->Awesome, thank you both.</v>
So, as an upcoming form of medicine,
I thought the best place to get started would be
if you can both provide an overview
of the current state of regenerative medicine.
What are the key trends in development shaping the field?
<v ->Well, I think that we're in a 1965 moment,</v>
and I'm very excited about that.
And what I mean by that is,
and I'm sure a lot of you
are very familiar with Moore's Law.
published Moore's Law, famously.
And he correctly anticipated
the exponential growth in computing power,
the doubling of the number of transistors per microchip
every two years.
And what it did was,
it not only spawned the microchip revolution,
but it spawned all these other industries
that have changed our world,
from the internet industry
to the personal computing industry to AI
that we're seeing today.
And I think that the thing that was important
about that microchip revolution
was that it was a convergence of multiple disparate fields
that had to reach a certain level of sophistication
in order to realize that kind of exponential growth.
And regenerative medicine,
I think, is at that point in 2025.
So, 50 years from now, when we look back,
we're gonna see that 3D printing from 1984 to today
has grown by leaps and bounds.
When you look at gene editing just starting in 1973
with recombinant DNA, Herb Boyer, Stanley Cohen,
and you see where we are today,
that's another industry
that's reached immense sophistication.
You look at protein folding theory.
Now, AlphaFold is doing Christian Anfinsen's work
on its own.
If you look at in silico trials,
AI has enabled
not only computational and modeling techniques,
but it could transform regenerative medicine
in the sense that it will dissolve BEAR's entry.
So, I think that the state of regenerative medicine
is at an inflection point.
I think that it's a 1965 moment
and we're going to see all these disparate fields
coming together to create a new reality for all of us.
<v ->Exciting, thank you.</v>
<v ->Yeah, I agree to that.</v>
In fact, it has an immense potential to redefine
how we cure or how we treat and even cure diseases,
and very complex diseases.
And I see a lot of advancements happening
in stem cell research,
in cell and gene therapy in general.
Just in December,
the FDA approved the first mesenchymal stem cell therapy
to treat
steroid-refractory acute graft-versus-host disease
in children.
So, this is an immense path forward.
We also see a lot of research ongoing,
and we discussed about it in iPSCs.
And iPSCs, the beauty is that those cells
can be programmed in any type of cell,
and that gives the potential to treat
diabetes, Parkinson's, cardiac conditions.
So, lots of good things happening.
Also, more known, the CAR T space,
so the engineered immune cells to treat cancers
going into other disease areas,
like immune diseases, gene therapies.
So, in fact, personalized medicine becomes reality.
It's not only an aspiration.
AI will help.
It can predict the behavior of the cell.
But there is also challenges,
and the challenges are the accessibility,
the affordability of the treatment.
And that's where there are a lot of efforts ongoing
to make those productions and manufacturing processes
more scalable, more cost effective.
And this is going to have a tremendous impact
on bringing those transformative therapies to the patients.
<v ->Yeah, great!</v>
Thank you both.
So, with that update on the field,
can you each share what your companies
are focusing on in regenerative medicine
and if possible, have any patient stories,
real-life examples come to mind
that illustrate the work that you're doing?
<v ->Well, what we're focusing on is two things.</v>
We're trying to cascade regeneration
and we're trying to calibrate regeneration.
In terms of cascading regeneration,
what we've done is, last year,
we commercialized a product called the TrabeculeX Continuum.
And what that entails is two separate technologies.
One is a biomaterial designed to promote bone growth,
and that's delivered in the operating room.
The second is an AI-enabled physical therapy platform
that's designed to harness the principles
of mechanotransduction,
which, some of you may know,
all of our cells are mechanosensitive.
So, the forces and stresses that you apply
will translate into biochemical signals
releasing growth factors
and amplifying the impact of the biomaterial.
So, we definitely thought that there was a lack
of longitudinal interventions,
and that's why we wanted to cascade regeneration,
starting with the intraoperative phase,
continuing on to the postoperative phase.
And we found tremendous success in that.
We're measuring the Orebro musculoskeletal pain scores
of the patients who've been treated so far.
We found a 17% reduction in severe pain self-reporting.
The next thing we're working on is something
we'll submit to the FDA this year,
and that's our attempt to calibrate regeneration.
Veerle mentioned the holy grail of true patient specificity,
but until we get to that ultimate gold standard,
what we're trying to do is empower our surgeons
to be able to tailor these interventions
in a more appropriate way for each patient.
One of the biggest challenges in our space
is the variety of bone mineral density profiles of patients.
And what happens is,
surgeons will choose a certain implant,
and then, in the operating theater,
they'll choose some kind of mix of biomaterials
to incorporate into the cavity that's in the implant.
But it's not a precise science,
and that's why you have this variability in fusion rates.
So, what we're doing is a twofold process.
One is 3D printing a titanium inner body.
And so, we're matching the bone density profiles,
changing the lattice structure
so that patients who are osteoporotic
have a different lattice structure, osteopenic,
and patients with regular bone mineral density profiles
have a more stiff implant
so that you can prevent adjacent segment disease,
so that the forces are applied properly.
And then, what we're doing is we wanna harness bioprinting.
We've had success using a hydrogel
that will serve as a carrier,
and that hydrogel is carrying demineralized bone matrix.
And demineralized bone matrix includes growth factors,
and that's usually incorporated in the operating theater.
The problem with biomaterials is that if you use too many,
the patient could result in ectopic bone formation,
and that's bone growth
where you don't necessarily want it.
But by using the power of bioprinting
and calibrating regeneration,
we can offer surgeons a spectrum of implants
that are not only different in their density,
but they're different in the amount of growth factors
that they each provide.
And so, we're hoping that that kind of calibration
empowers surgeons to have better outcomes,
more predictable outcomes
until we get to the true holy grail
of patient-specific medicine.
<v ->Wow, fascinating, thank you.</v>
Right.
<v ->Yeah, and Cassie, you asked for a patient story.</v>
I want to talk about Julius,
and he had 50% of his body burned.
And then, there is not a lot you can do as a doctor.
Now, with our automated cell expansion system
and a small sample of skin of Julius,
a biotech company was able
to manufacture bioengineered skin.
And now, Julius is having a normal life.
And this is fantastic, if you hear that.
And it's bringing that automation
that brings a predictability to consistency,
which is foundational to scale those therapies
and bring them to patients.
And it's also very critical to get regulatory approvals
for these therapies going forward.
And then you spoke about, yeah, personalized medicine.
That's another focus area we have,
and the example I'm going to give
is the example of sickle cell disease.
Patients with sickle cell disease
have abnormal formation of their red blood cells.
They're forming as a sickle.
And so, the oxygen transport in the body
is not as it should be,
meaning they have organ failure, stroke,
so very severe complications.
So, we have technology that filters out
specifically those defect red blood cells,
and they are replaced by normal and healthy cells
from healthy donors.
So, imagine this.
If you are going,
and we are going to learn more about genomics,
about the role specific cells are playing,
the applications are endless.
We can look more and more to filter out more selectively
cells that play a role in diseases,
and yeah, ultimately come to more personalized medicine
adapted to that specific patient condition.
<v ->Thank you, wow!</v>
So many conversations at CES, of course,
revolve around the future,
so let's talk the future of regenerative medicine.
Any technological advancements
that you expect in the next five to 10 years,
and do you have an idea of a rough timeline
of when you expect to see this progress?
<v ->Well, something I'm very excited about,</v>
well, in our space,
so much of what comes to market
is controlled by the regulatory bodies,
and for good reason.
And I'm incredibly excited about
the advancement of in silico trials
and the acceptance of in silico trials
by some of these regulatory bodies.
In October of last year,
there was a seminal moment, in my opinion.
The FDA released a report
from the New Alternative Methods Subcommittee.
And in that report,
they accepted that in silico trials
would be an inevitability.
And what that does is it lowers the barrier to entry
for smaller teams that may be innovative,
that have the technical skill.
And this is five years out,
it's not something that I see happening in the next year.
But by using the power and sophistication
of modeling and computational techniques
and using virtual patient populations
that are provided by the FDA,
we're going to see an efflorescence
of technological breakthroughs,
because there isn't a barrier to entry relative to,
anchored in clinical trials
where legacy companies that are almost 200 years old
are the sources of innovation.
I think, if you go further out,
we were talking about patient-specific medicine,
these virtual populations may be more patient-specific.
And so, you can run thousands of interventions,
pharmacological interventions, surgical interventions
on digital twins of a specific patient
and see if that's going to,
which one of those is going to guarantee
the kind of outcome that you're looking for,
instead of this approximation.
I think a lot of this is controlled
by the regulatory authorities,
and I think that, like I said,
the FDA's report in October,
and also, the NIH put out a report in February,
they call it novel alternative methods.
I think that's also another very promising sign
that we're going to,
the pace of regulatory approvals will start to catch up
with the pace of innovation.
And I think that's going to transform
the regenerative medicine landscape
and it's going to bring a lot of things to market
that we haven't seen.
<v Cassie>Thank you.</v>
<v ->Yeah, and I like you bring up the in silico clinical trial</v>
and the digital twins.
I want to bring it a bit back about what I believe
is that a big difference that we'll give
is that when we can make those processes
more predictable and consistent,
and it also brings digital in there.
So, we are looking into digital modelings
and creating digital twins
to understand better the processes that are needed
to get those therapies produced.
And that will also help to accelerate
those regulatory approvals.
It will enhance the way we can scale the production,
but will also make it more easy,
and even looking to bring those manufacturing
and development processes closer to the patient,
meaning the patient has better access.
And so, we are able to increase the accessibility,
affordability,
look in the future that we have less treatment disparities
and inequalities of those regenerative medicines
in the future as well.
So, that's what I see happening
in the five to 10 coming years.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
Yeah, it's hard to talk about healthcare right now
without AI coming into the conversation,
especially here at CES.
So, how do you see AI transforming regenerative medicine?
<v ->Well, I think just building off</v>
of our last topic, in silico trials,
I think a lot of this is accelerated by AI,
the granularity that you're seeing,
the ability to capture the physiology
to create these hyperrealistic digital twins.
Right now, there are four virtual patients
that the FDA provides,
and there are actually 600 applications
using those digital twins.
Right now, there's only four of them,
but AI has really made that possible.
I also think that AI is going to be,
we've already seen the impact of AlphaFold,
but if we look at off-target effects,
if AI can help design better guide RNAs,
what will that do for realizing the promise of gene editing
and how is that going to expand across multiple fields?
We were talking about MSCs before the panel.
If AI can can help design better guide RNAs
and we can someday get to a gold standard
of off-the-shelf MSCs,
if we can control HLA proteins
so that they're downregulated
and that patients won't reject some of these MSCs,
we could actually create a much more scalable
regenerative medicine portfolio for patients,
and we won't be limited by bone marrow aspiration,
spinning MSCs in the operating theater.
I think that gene editing could hold that promise,
but I think AI is the real enabler of that
so that we can have better guide RNAs.
But I think I'm most excited about in silico trials
and I think AI makes that possible.
<v Cassie>Thank you.</v>
<v ->Yeah, and we spoke about MSCs,</v>
and it's the iPSCs that will enable it as off the shelf
and endless possibilities.
AI is also going to accelerate the predictability.
And I wanted to give an example
from the cell and gene therapy space
because we are playing there and collaborating in many ways.
We are enabling the cell collections from blood
as a starting material
for the development of cell therapies.
And also, there, we can use AI and data
to increase the predictability.
We have worked with a healthcare center in South Dakota,
where we were analyzing and helping to analyze
their cell collection data
to create a prediction algorithm.
And that prediction algorithm allows us
to calculate more accurately
the volume of blood that is needed
to reach the target dose of cells
and the yield needed of cells to create the right therapy.
And they were able to increase their success rate
from 47% to 92%.
Can you imagine how many more critically ill patients
we can help by doing that?
So, AI is really an enabler to make that happen,
analysis of the data at larger scale.
Just like I already mentioned,
also using it for digital twin development
for process in development as well.
So, yeah, I see a lot of potential there
to accelerate access to treatments.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
We know that the COVID-19 pandemic
accelerated the adoption of new medical technologies.
And I know we've talked a bit about regulatory bodies,
the FDA so far,
but do you think that there's a possibility
that the FDA may be more open-minded
to accelerating technologies like regenerative medicine
as a result of some of the shifts
we've seen in recent years?
And have any of the changes in recent years
allowed your companies to accelerate innovation?
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
I think COVID-19 was an incredible accelerator.
It was obviously deeply tragic in a lot of ways,
but Project Warp Speed
and how vaccine developers, by necessity,
had to use simulation and modeling
to go through thousands of different vaccine iterations
and gauge through simulation
how T cells and B cells would respond
to the different vaccines,
gave proof to the FDA and other regulatory bodies
that simulation and computational methods
had reached a very advanced level of sophistication.
And I think you're seeing that now only five years away,
the fact that they've even floated the idea
of creating an office for novel alternative methods.
And I think that's due in large part to COVID-19
and the use of these computational methods
by the vaccine developers.
In terms of how we would use it,
we are very excited about using FEA
with some of these virtual patients
and accelerating our timeline so that we can run
multiple different regulatory approvals in parallel,
and so that we don't have that bottleneck
of putting a lot of our effort into one.
I think that the fact that the FDA has accepted that
and that they've actually laid out a methodology
for what they would deem appropriate in terms of testing
helps accelerate a lot of different innovations,
and that's something that we wanna leverage.
<v Cassie>Thank you.</v>
<v ->Yeah, and the FDA has done a lot of effort</v>
to be more flexible,
so they have programs now
to expedite the regulatory pathway.
They have RMAT designation
specifically for regenerative medicine,
and also, they have more guidance documents published.
Now, what we experienced
was during COVID itself at firsthand.
In fact, in March, 2020,
we were the first medical device.
We got first emergency use approval for a medical device
to treat COVID patients with respiratory failure.
It was a technology to specifically
remove cytokines from the blood
and give the filtered blood again to the patient.
So, we really experienced it firsthand
of what was possible and what the FDA is making possible.
And then, more recently, based on guidance papers,
we are able to provide better process development support
to make sure that manufacturing is done
according to GMP requirements,
both in the clinical and in the commercial space.
So, this is helping our customers,
bringing their stem cell transplants faster to patients.
And we have examples in neurogenerative medicine
and many other applications.
So, it's great to see how that can help.
<v ->Thank you, yep.</v>
We have time for one last question,
so I thought I'd bring it full circle.
At the top of our conversation,
you mentioned 1965,
and in talking about recent acceleration
in technologies from telemedicine to AI,
do you believe that we're at another major inflection point
in technology adoption and healthcare?
And how do you see regenerative medicine
fitting into this larger picture?
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
I think that we are definitely at an inflection point,
and I think that regenerative medicine
is at the center of this.
And I think that in order for something
to be at the center of an inflection point,
it needs to depend on a convergence of multiple technologies
and offer something truly unique to all of those
and make use of those.
I mentioned that,
like you said earlier on in our conversation,
I think that we're going to spawn multiple industries,
at least six, from regenerative medicine.
And this inflection point is going to make use
of disparate technologies
that have more or less developed in silos from one another.
And I'm very confident
that we're all gonna benefit from this
within the next five to 10 years.
And I think, hopefully,
if all of us are around in 50 years,
well, we may make it for another 50.
So, very, very optimistic about that.
<v Cassie>Thank you.</v>
<v ->Yeah, I'm aligned with that.</v>
We also see that the technology adoption
is happening earlier, early in the research.
An example is we are partnering
with the CiRA Foundation in Japan
to be able to advance bringing iPSC-based therapies
faster from the lab into the clinic.
And it all comes together.
We see that regenerative medicine is maturing.
Access will become more easily.
And I see that in the bigger picture,
this is going hand in hand, what we see,
like the impact of AI on the empowerment of patients
to be part of their treatment decision.
And if you take all of that together,
I see we are going
to a more democratized healthcare in the future.
<v ->Thank you, panel,</v>
and thank you to the audience for joining us.
If you'd like to continue the conversation,
please find us in the hall,
and enjoy the rest of the conference.