<v Daniel>Hello everyone, and welcome back from lunch.</v>
We've got a great panel here, and today,
we're gonna be talking about energy management
and the demand for that.
And I'd like to start off by thanking our sponsors again
for your generous support.
We couldn't put on a summit like this without you.
For today, we're gonna be talking a lot
about energy management highlighted by Schneider Electric,
and we're talking about the demand
for energy management home.
Afterwards, we'll have a networking break,
and then we'll talk about multifamily
with my colleague Kristen.
So to start off with,
I wanna talk about the great energy squeeze.
American consumers have been used
to lower electricity rates
than the rest of the world for many years.
But over the last five years,
we've started to see an increase in energy.
So much so that two thirds of internet households
in our data say that their costs are too high,
and no one, not even the wealthy, are exempt from this.
Only 12% say that costs are not enough
to make them concerned.
And one third are actively working to reduce their,
or want to reduce their energy consumption at home,
but don't know how.
And we think that devices are a good way
for people to manage their energy.
We're starting to see the possibility
of different energy management devices
that can be set to work together
and be turned back to save energy when costs are too high.
And we have asked in our research
whether people have integrations
with their smart devices into routines.
40% say that they do.
And we find that energy management
is the primary routine type
that they are looking to set up.
29% say that they are looking at saving energy
through their routines.
Now one thing that's important to note is
that one key energy saving device, smart thermostats,
is only at 16% adoption today.
So there's definitely a lot more that the industry needs
to do to create adoption in those areas
so that you can have things like demand response programs
that can interact with that and save energy
and also reduce the strain on the grid.
So to talk more about this,
we have my great panel here
that's gonna be talking
about innovations in energy management,
the adoption is actually needed, and what's out there today.
And we're gonna talk also about partnerships
and ecosystem players.
Is it important to partner with people?
Who do you partner with?
Exactly what is the process,
and how do you split the profits?
And then future directions in smart energy,
what's hot, what's coming up,
what should be on our radar for the future.
So I have a great panel here
with representatives from Duke Energy, Shelly, NRG,
Schneider Electric, Resideo,
and of course myself, Parks Associates.
And we'll be talking a lot about energy management
in the home today.
To start off with,
I wanted to have Lon introduce himself,
tell us a little bit about you and what you do at Duke.
<v Lon>Great, well thanks for having me.</v>
And just briefly, Lon Huber,
I lead up a lot of our customer solutions.
So think all the pricing that a customer sees,
the time of use rates,
or TOU as you might hear on this panel,
all of our economic development.
So that's the data centers as well coming in
as well as manufacturing our wholesale business,
regulatory enablement, customer load analytics.
So a lot of the fun things
and the key is figuring out how to orchestrate it all
so that we drive value for customers
and try to keep their bills as low as possible.
<v Daniel>Great.</v>
And now Wolfgang, go ahead and introduce yourself.
<v Wolfgang>Yeah, I'm Wolfgang Kirsch,</v>
I'm the CEO of Shelly Group.
Shelly is producing smart home devices
with a strong focus on energy monitoring, energy saving.
We are well known in Europe.
We are still at the beginning in the United States,
growing 40, 50% every year.
A French journalist a week ago or two weeks ago said
we will be a mini Schneider in the future,
so looking to my left, and that's a great honor for us.
Happy to be here.
<v Daniel>Great.</v>
And now Meghan, go ahead and introduce yourself.
<v Meghan>Hello, Meghan McConomy. I am with NRG.</v>
I lead the brand strategy
for the consumer organization.
And so that is our smart home brand, Vivint,
but also working with our energy brands
in competitive market.
So that's gonna be in Texas in the east.
My 12 years at NRG, I've had a number of different roles,
really focused on energy management,
so looking forward to this discussion.
Thanks for having me.
<v Daniel>And Poonam, go ahead and introduce yourself.</v>
<v Poonam>Good afternoon everyone, I'm Poonam Narang,</v>
and I lead the product management team at Schneider Electric
for the residential segment in North America.
And my focus is really all things residential
from breakers to enclosures to panels
across what exists today as well as
how the industry is evolving into newer equipment
as well as energy management.
<v Daniel>Great. And now Michael.</v>
<v Michael>All right, Michael Siemann,</v>
I lead our Energy Sciences Team at Resideo
as well as direct to technical efforts
of our Grid Services Team.
The Grid Services Team has been developing
demand response and virtual power plant programs
for over the last decade.
And I'm gonna bring like an experience
where I have both
helping develop the energy management features
that of customers use to help
reduce their energy bills as well as
managing those fleets of virtual power plants
for utilities and energy markets.
<v ->Great.</v>
All right, well thank you so much to my panel
for introducing themselves.
I wanted to go ahead and start with the first question.
We want to talk a lot about
what the role is in energy management platforms,
what tech is currently being used
and how complicated the integrations are.
So I'd like to direct that question to you first, Michael.
<v ->All right, so energy management today</v>
has kind of shifted from being traditionally about
just energy reduction to a point now
where it's about how do you shift energy,
the energy usage at different times.
So either driven by a time of use rate that you might have
for electricity or part of a demand response,
virtual power plant program,
moving energy from the peak hours
to off peak hours helps reduce strain
on the electricity grid.
And us at CES here, we know that customer's expecting them
to do all this stuff on their own, take action.
It's not realistic.
So we're kind of challenged as
technology providers to be able to automate,
to put intelligence into these products
so that way it gets it into the right position,
and joining platforms is how to do that.
Smart thermostats are the gateway
kind of energy management product for customers.
I mean there's tens of millions of them out there,
as you said that 16% of them,
that's the number that have been connected.
So there's a lot of opportunities
to get traditional thermostats connected.
But yeah, what we see is having
this controllable load available for utilities,
customers are able to take control
of their energy management ,
control their bills and get to a position where
they're helping out their community
and able to provide multiple value for everyone involved.
<v ->Yeah, yeah, that's great.</v>
And definitely, like I said,
our data does show that a significant amount
of consumers do want to be able to manage their energy,
but they just don't know how.
And I don't think that we have enough marketing around that
and exactly enough education for consumers.
But I do know that
it's a little bit different in Europe,
and I don't know if you could talk a little bit
about that, Wolfgang.
<v ->Yes, in Europe,</v>
energy prices are much higher than they are in the US.
I personally paid 45 euro cents last year
for my energy per kilowatt hour, which is quite expensive.
And then customers automatically start to check
where are they consuming their energy,
how much are they consuming?
And especially with our products quite affordable,
they usually start with one or two devices
with a central energy meter.
They find out how much their apartment
or their house is consuming when they're not at home,
they start to ask themselves, where's this coming from?
They put simple devices behind a wall switch
or a plug in between to figure out what is the next step,
and this is how it started.
And that took off two years ago
with the high energy prices like crazy.
And now what we see is a boom of solar systems,
especially popular in Germany
and in other countries are very small systems
that people put on their balcony,
so-called balcony power stations
that just deliver a small proportion of the energy
that they need and the big systems of course as well.
And then they as well start to use the energy
that they have,
find out now the batteries are full,
what can I do with the excess of energy.
Now I switch on my air condition, now I charge my car.
That's similar to the US, but the attention is much higher,
and it needs less education
because they start to ask question
because simply it hurts,
And immediately we feel that
as well the attention goes a little bit down,
but it has as well to do with how much do I have to pay
for such a system and how fast is the amortization time
with these low prices?
And that's something that really helps,
and I think that that it has to hurt
to a certain degree if we wanna change our habits.
<v ->Yeah, I think that that's instrumental in the fact</v>
that the European market has really adopted
a lot of energy technology
ahead of like the US market, even now,
like I saw recently Homey had some release
for energy monitoring that's really compatible
with European devices,
and I was thinking it'd be great
to have that here in the US too.
I think we'll get there eventually,
but yeah, so I wanted to get also a sense of like,
from Meghan, what do you think the benefits are
for consumers, utility companies,
and technology providers?
<v ->So from a consumer perspective,</v>
part of the approach we do at NRG
but in the competitive market specifically
because it's such a a competitive market,
lots of competitors we need to differentiate is really
talk to consumers.
What do they want, what do they want
out of these energy management companies and offerings?
And like Daniel said,
savings obviously rises to the top,
but another benefit is really around convenience.
And so Michael talked about time of use plans specifically,
and what we learned was you can talk about time of use
and you can talk about shifting energy to consumers,
but they don't really know what that means
and it's not convenient for them.
And so what we did is we developed products
that were easy to understand,
this was years ago, like free weekends or free nights,
these are time of use products
that customers can really understand
and take action around to save money.
So that was a way to really marry savings and convenience.
Another offering that we've got
that we just started piloting was really getting
some of that technology into the home
to make it easy for consumers to save.
So installing thermostats for free,
but also including doorbell cameras,
and so bundling that for energy customers.
And we've started to see some traction there,
and we're excited about kind of
how that adoption is really starting
to move forward as a result.
<v ->Yeah, yeah, that's very great.</v>
It's like the bundling thing is very interesting too,
because that does create a bit more value for the consumers
and helps get them on board.
So I wanted to talk to Lon about like
providing sort of examples of some of these short-term
and long-term energy savings achieved
through a home energy management system.
<v ->Well it gets into the patchwork</v>
of the electricity sector,
which is a very complicated industry,
needs a translation to the end consumer
in a lot of different ways.
But you heard about competitive markets,
there's regulated markets, there's public, there's co-ops,
sometimes a state will have a mix of all four within it.
And so each of those models presents different types
of value propositions to the customer.
So maybe at the front end you could see an upfront incentive
if the customer buys a device or enrolls a device.
So that's upfront, maybe it's a bill credit
or another way to do it.
And then there's longer term savings
where maybe it's the rate optimization,
so time of use rate optimization with that device
and then ongoing credits for enrollment,
or it's a aggregation of customer resources
and it pulls some revenue in from the wholesale market,
which is more similar to a European style transaction.
So there's all different ways that these value streams
can reach consumer,
and then to make matters even more complicated,
it also depends on what portion
of the grid you're providing value to.
So if you're providing value to power plants
that are centralized versus the wires
that are in your neighborhood,
those are two different systems
and two different types of value streams
that you can get from them.
And so you could see in some markets you get a program
for the wires and you get another program for the generator
and how those interface could be different.
So not to make it overly complex,
but there's a variety of different value streams.
Some are upfront, some are ongoing,
some are fixed, some are variable.
<v ->Yeah. Thank you for that, Lon.</v>
Yeah, I think it's really interesting too that
with like the bill credit,
our research finds that incentives are an appealing reason
for like demand response participation,
and that for 80%, it's appealing to have a bill credit.
So it's really important to have an incentive
that really brings that home for consumers,
but it does have to be enough for consumers to participate
and get over the hump of not wanting
to lose control of their devices.
So I wanted to ask for Poonam,
do you think that these are only for new homes
or were there requirements for the investments
especially like for like retrofits?
<v ->Yeah, so at the end of the day today when we look at</v>
the demand for energy within the utilities,
that demand for energy has increased significantly
over the last two years.
And so while homes contribute towards 20%
of the greenhouse gas,
the energy prices have been continuously increasing.
And so for us to really accelerate the energy transition,
it's important that we look at the homes
that are already built versus only new builds, right?
We have almost 80% of the homes today
that are built before 1980.
We have 40 million homes today
that are having electrical infrastructure in the homes
that are not necessarily ready
to consume more of the electrification, right?
So adding EVs, adding heat pumps, so on and so forth.
And so it's important
and almost a responsibility for us as technology providers
to be able to support the upgrade
of the infrastructure within the home
to enable for this greater electrification.
And so no it can be new builds only,
it needs to include and incorporate the retrofits.
And now from a consumer perspective,
it's almost like I need to know before I can do something.
And we are seeing that a large part
of the consumers in our surveys,
you've seen more than 50% of the consumers,
they want to know how much energy is being consumed
by the various loads within their homes.
And you can only control if you know, so once you know,
that's step one, you got to be able
to measure the energy consumption within your home.
And Schneider's energy monitor enables you to do that.
Now in terms of really upgrading the infrastructure,
it's not necessarily an all or nothing, right?
It can be incremental starting
with something like an energy monitor,
and then incrementing from there maybe a smart technology
inside the panel to enable you
to control the loads within the home itself.
Now from a price point really
that varies depending on the type of infrastructure
that you've already got in the home
and the type of load that you want to add,
whether it be an EV, EV charger,
or whether it be a heat pump or a HVAC,
it really depends on the type of load you wanna add.
But it can be anywhere from 400 to upwards of $3,000.
But then there are tons of incentives as well that
the utilities are providing
for more electrification in the homes.
<v ->Yeah, very interesting.</v>
When it comes to installing in these homes too,
I wonder if it's more DIY versus pro,
if there's sort of any thoughts on that?
I don't know if Wolfgang, you could speak to that.
<v ->Yeah, of course.</v>
We are doing 70 to 80%
of our revenue with do it yourself customers.
So they are able to install the solution very easy at home.
Everyone who can change a power socket in the wall,
buys that in a Home Depot can install Shelly.
So that's a big advantage.
And as well, coming back to the infrastructure,
I think in Europe in most of the countries,
the infrastructure is okay,
but if you wanna install a central system
for energy monitoring per device and per room,
you need new wiring.
With our devices,
and that's what most customers really love,
you don't need new wiring at all.
You can do this room by room, switch by switch,
the functionality of the device stays exactly the same.
And that's what customers really love.
We know from our data
that a typical average Shelly customer starts
with two devices and then adds two devices per year,
which is very slow,
but step by step they are making their homes smart
and monitor the energy
because we saw, as I already said,
we saw with the increase of the energy prices,
we saw a move from the same device
that is not monitoring the energy to the device
that is monitoring the energy, it's the same device,
just one euro more expensive.
It's almost 100% now with energy monitoring,
the others are more or less gone,
easy to install, relatively cheap.
And with our devices for a couple of hundred euros,
you make your whole home smart, including everything,
can go up to a couple of thousand
if you have a big villa or whatever.
But most of the buildings are old.
So the the new constructions are not that much,
and that's a solution that customers really appreciate,
and they have the full cost control as well
doing this step by step and doing this on their own.
<v ->Yeah, yeah, very good.</v>
And of course whether we're talking about pro or DIY,
one of the things we have to consider too is that
the stakeholders involved in this,
like on the stage for example,
we have both utilities and device manufacturers represented.
And so I wanna talk a little bit about like partnerships
and ecosystem players, partnerships necessary,
and what are the best partnerships to have?
Poonam, I'd like you to address that if you could.
<v ->Yeah, I think that's a great question</v>
and we had great panels this morning
by the way for those of you that had attended,
I think this was also touched on in the morning
that at the end of the day for the amount power
that we need with the growth in demand,
the energy transition needs to be accelerated.
And if we try to do this as technologists all by ourselves,
this is a slow process.
So it is extremely important that as an industry,
we work together collaboratively
to drive this forward in an accelerated manner.
And so partnerships are absolutely important.
From a Schneider Electric perspective,
we've got various types of partnerships, right?
So we co-develop with partners.
We also have partners we have invested in
like Qmerit, Energy Sage, Applied,
and they kind of touch across various parts
of the value chain.
And then we've also partnered with builders, right?
So we've got an installation with
and a strategic partnership with KB Homes,
one of the large US builders where in California,
we've installed KB Home partnered with Schneider Electric
with Southern California as well as
with University of California
to drive energy-efficient homes, 200 homes in California.
And this is with solar in each home
with batteries in each home as well as a microgrid
with a community battery.
And they saw almost 40% reduction
in energy consumption.
They have cumulatively, for the homeowners,
saved more than 800 million
in revenue coming from energy savings,
and from a CO2 reduction perspective,
it's almost equal to 606,000 gas powered cars.
So together as an industry, when we work together,
we can make truly a large impact,
both for the consumer as well as for the planet.
<v ->Yeah, that's interesting.</v>
It's also interesting to know that
if you have these partnerships with home builders,
but there's also, when it comes to partnerships,
there's also solar they can install in these homes too.
Wolfgang, could you talk a little bit about the solar angle?
<v ->Yes, that is something that is really, really helpful.</v>
We have almost with all solar panel producers,
we have very close partnerships.
Most of them just happened because they picked us,
they integrated us in their solution,
and they recommend us.
And then it starts with the simple monitoring
of how much energy is my solar system producing?
The homeowner knows that's the energy that I have.
And then they make the step-by-step integration afterwards.
That's really helpful, and we are considered
to be something like the standard for doing this together
with solar panel producers in Europe.
That's really helpful.
But if I can add something to the builders,
what we see in Europe,
and I don't know if this is the same in the United States,
if you have professional installers,
the electricians installing devices,
I would today say that 90% of them
have no idea how to install something that is smart, 90%.
So if you talk to them about something that is smart,
if this is Schneider or if this is Shelly,
the first thing they say,
"What, this has an IP address?
Let's put the old wires."
And this is something that we have to break through
where we are investing a lot in training them,
in helping them to do that
because they simply don't understand
this will need a generation of new installers
with a completely different mindset
that are able to do that.
So the solar installers, they are miles ahead.
The traditional guys, they are really, really behind,
and they wanna put their two or three cables
in the wall and that's it.
<v ->Yeah, that does beg the question</v>
of whether solar installers need to be electricians
or if they do not need to be
if that helps with that particular value proposition.
<v ->I think this is a new business</v>
and that has new people and they have a new mindset,
and that is something that completely changes the setup.
So if someone did the same job 40 years long
and says in five years I will retire anyhow,
I don't want to learn that, it's too complicated,
I might have to come back because something is not working.
And that's one of the problems that we see there.
<v ->Well it's funny is I had a great early Christmas present</v>
of my HVAC system going out,
and so I talked to the technician, I'm like,
"Hey, I'd like to get a smart thermostat"
and there should be a rebate from the local utility, right?
And he's like, "Yeah, but you don't want
to get a smart thermostat,
it is going to also hurt the life of your system
and like all these falsehoods."
And I was like, not only could they not do it,
but they're actively against it.
And that's part of the challenge.
<v ->Yeah, yeah. Very interesting.</v>
I also wanna get kind of sort of a view
of partnerships from both the utility perspective
and the device manufacturer perspective.
And so what are some examples
of some successful collaborations
between utility companies and smart home providers?
And I'll lead off with Meghan to answer that.
<v ->Well, I'll echo what Poonam said.</v>
Just general increases in demand for electricity
and energy is really requiring these strategic partnerships.
And so an example of one in Texas that was just announced
between NRG and Renew Home
and Google is going to enable the building
of a virtual power plant or VPP in Texas.
So we're excited about that,
but it is really requiring that partnership
so that we can scale to make the impact
that we need to in Texas specifically.
And so from an NRG perspective,
we've got the supply management expertise
that we bring as well as our energy brands
and customers that we bring to the program.
And then from a Google and a Renew Home standpoint,
they've got energy management capabilities
that we'll be leveraging.
So that bundle I had mentioned
around the thermostat and doorbell,
that's really speaking to customers getting that adoption.
The key is really to get customer engagement
so that we've got a scalable successful VPP.
And so that's one example of a partnership.
<v ->Michael, would you also care to weigh in?</v>
I know that Resideo has a demand, sorry, a DERMS platform,
and that that really is very useful to work with utilities.
So tell me a little bit more about how that works.
<v ->Yeah, so a piece in the puzzle</v>
as Meghan was just describing is
what we call a distributed energy management system,
distributed energy resource management system, a DERMS,
And what this DERMS is is like a software layer
and like a team behind the scenes that actually is able
to aggregate many different devices,
kind of creating a collaboration with the manufacturers
of the devices,
being able to manage having programs
that get to the device to be able
to be controlled as part of the events when the utility
or the energy company needs to have that energy.
So kind of my advice
to technology providers here in the audience
is utilities,
they don't want to talk to every device manufacturer,
and frankly you guys don't wanna have
to talk to every utility.
It just doesn't scale.
So the DERMS provider, the aggregator may be a simpler term,
is able to be there in the middle coordinating things.
We do stuff in the cloud,
we're able to talk to utilities on secure channels.
So look at that as a pathway if you want to get more
of your devices involved in energy management.
Speaking of success though, so I wanna bring up a story
from my wife actually recently.
I'm a scientist,
so my house has been in demand response events
since the beginning of demand response events.
And this last year, like a few months ago,
she's like made a comment that
you haven't been running as many
of those mad science experiments
making our house really hot this past summer.
And really what it was,
it wasn't me controlling all these things,
like it was the utilities are now calling events
less frequently or at least not as strong
as they had in the past.
Parks Research kind of tells us this too,
that when customers leave demand response programs now,
it's a diminishing level of people saying,
"Oh it was because I was uncomfortable,
oh it was because we had too many events."
It's more like they moved out
or like something else changed.
So our data is showing that too,
that like events are being called
maybe not as long as they used to
or different times of the day
we kind of like learn customer patterns
and try to tailor the response
to what we can do for that customer.
So I think of it as like maybe
if you were in a program in the past
and like was uncomfortable for you,
give it a shot because a lot has evolved in this space.
<v ->I think you hit on something key there though,</v>
which is we've gotta make sure we have customer trust
because we have to have the scale to sign up
to all these programs to get these devices
to meet the challenge that everybody's been talking about
because remember,
decarbonization was a generational challenge
when there was flat load growth.
Now we've got high load growth and decarbonization target.
So it's really unprecedented.
And so in order to get that scale,
you gotta make sure that that customer's comfortable.
You gotta make sure it's simple, right?
And you have to make sure
that you don't break that trust
so you don't have to come back and be like,
"Hey, sorry we botched that a few years ago.
Would you like to try it again?"
Because that is such a hard sell, right?
And the solar industry
by the way is seeing the impacts
when customers lose faith in your industry.
What do your customer acquisition costs do
when that happens, they go sky high.
<v ->Yeah, and we've seen solar basically stall in adoption</v>
and a lot of it has to do with cost,
but definitely there's a lot of trust issues
with the industry as well.
So yeah, it's very interesting.
We're seeing also that like a lot
of people are afraid of losing control with demand response.
So that's a big piece of it,
and being able to gain their trust
is gonna be very key to that.
And also incentivizing them
because we find that that's really the number one way
to get consumers to participate in demand response.
So I wanna talk a little bit about
in the last few minutes,
the future of smart home energy management.
And this is really a hot topic of course,
and I'd like to hear a little bit about Poonam,
what you think about it, but how are advancements in AI,
machine learning, and IOT changing the energy market,
especially like AI and machine learning?
<v ->We heard a lot about that this morning, right?</v>
So again, I go back to the number one problem
that we got to solve for the consumer,
and that is reducing the energy bill.
Now in an ideal state,
I would like a climate conscience
Greta Thunberg wired to my house
that is going to do everything
that needs to be done to make me comfortable,
to reduce my energy bill,
as well as do the right things for the planet, right?
That's an ideal state,
and I don't think that we are necessarily too far
from what that state is.
So for instance, in Europe,
the Schneider energy monitor,
that has AI built in that does energy monitoring
that watches for user behavior,
understands my energy consumption,
looks at the energy prices, looks at the weather forecast,
and does everything that needs
to be done in terms of automating the usage
within the house.
For instance, if the energy prices are low,
it'll heat up my water heater
when the energy prices are low,
it'll charge my EV when the energy prices are low.
And it can also predict you user behavior
to a certain degree and allow you
to kind of make choices based on your behavior.
So there's energy optimization that happens,
but then also as your energy,
if your energy prices are increasing to a certain degree,
there is a potential that you've got an old appliance
in the house that may be consuming more energy
than it should.
And that is an indication that probably in, I don't know,
few months from now, my appliance may go down.
So it gives you an alert necessarily to tell you,
"Hey, take a look at this."
So there is a little bit of that predictive piece
within that as well.
So there's a lot of advancements
that AI from an energy management is being done
to drive resiliency, to drive sustainability,
and to drive efficiency.
<v ->Yeah, definitely, it's very interesting,</v>
and I think I also wanna understand the impact that EVs
and new energy management programs such as VPPs
might have, Lon, I don't know if you could take that one.
<v ->Yeah, well it depends on the rate of adoption.</v>
The utility industry we're at heart
of infrastructure companies, right?
So we own and operate these very complex grids.
Duke Energy's grid can wrap around the world seven times.
So just think about the maintenance and the analytics
and everything that's required, and then on top of that,
throw in extreme weather events
or crazy people shooting at substations, right?
So it's really hard to manage,
and if all of a sudden you're getting a neighborhood
and each home has a one or two EVs in a cul-de-sac,
well that's gonna present an issue to that local system.
And we're not even talking about the larger oh,
do you have enough energy at this particular time
from the bulk power system.
So it will take more sophisticated algorithms
and AI to be able to balance that
and also make sure that you're meeting
all the customer needs so that you can co-optimize
with all those homes and the local grid.
Now what comes with that is more value streams though.
So if the customer can enroll
in a more sophisticated program,
then I can give them more incentives
either on the front end or continue
to do participation rewards, right?
So there's always these trade-offs.
You can have a maybe a simple program
that doesn't pay as much, but as you get this adoption,
you're gonna have to see more sophistication.
But again, the positive thing is that usually
comes with more compensation, more value.
<v ->Great, well we're almost at the end of our panel here,</v>
but as a quick lightning round,
maybe a minute or less for each person,
I had a conversation
during lunch with a couple of folks from Hunter Industries,
Matthew and Jessica,
and they brought the question about
how do you get the consumer
to buy into the value of energy management at home,
especially if they can't really turn down their energy use,
they need the air conditioner on, they need the lights on,
or if they've seen their energy insights once,
if they never need to see them again for those same devices,
how do you get them to buy into that value?
So a minute or less starting with Poonam.
<v ->So I think that at the end of the day, the consumer,</v>
I think the statistics you showed earlier was
that yes, they've tried to do everything.
Most of the consumers, more than 50% of the consumers
that we have surveyed believe
that smart home will help them reduce their energy bills.
Now the deployment and the adoption is still low,
16% as you said, smart thermostats.
However, the rate of adoption of that
has been the highest in the last couple of years.
So smart thermostats has increased as well
as energy monitoring has increased
over the last couple of years.
Now with that, I think the biggest challenges for us
to enable that adoption to drive engagement
and to keep the technology really simple,
to enable the engagement, right?
Because the consumers are not geeks
who are going to constantly be playing with the equipment.
They want to set it and forget it
and let the equipment kind of take care of everything
that needs to be taken care of.
And I think that's going to enable us
to drive more of that adoption.
<v ->Yeah, I can just add that</v>
the smart home market is on the edge
not being a geek market anymore,
it's mass market, it's on the edge, it's not yet there.
It's on the edge to the mass market.
For the geeks,
it was great to spend the whole weekend
installing one device, trying out a lot of things,
talking to the community.
Now I found the solution, I can add something,
that's over, and we are still, as an industry,
we are still talking too much about technology
and not enough about the solution.
The customer has a problem,
the problem is he wants to live with more convenience
or he wants to save energy.
How are we solving this problem?
He doesn't care about the product that is behind
and if this is matter or not matter or wifi or Z-Wave
or whatever it is, he doesn't care.
And this is something that is helping.
So to make the products easier,
to talk more about the use case and the solution.
And the other thing I usually say on the energy side,
it must hurt, if it's not hurting, no one will change.
As long as the kilowatt hour is 5 cents or 10 cents,
no one really looks at the bill.
If it's 30 or 40 cents, people look at the bill,
and that changes behavior completely.
And the last thing is education of the installers.
If we are not doing that
and as long as they are behaving, like don't do that,
it's really not good, it's not solid enough,
then we'll not change.
<v ->Yeah, I mean I think we need that interoperability too</v>
because we just had a really bad experience
with smart EV chargers now.
A lot of homeowners now just,
they're gonna have challenges with their charger
because the company sort of picked up
and then who can fill in
and who can work with those software systems.
So we have to think about that.
But also when you have that consumer that has that app
and they're looking, hey, how can I save money,
that it pops up, auto discovers the devices
that can enroll in a program
that Duke Energy has,
automatically one click enrollment,
they get a bill credit or whatever else
they get connected to a partner that can install something,
those are the things that we're gonna have to do
that helps reduce the amount of dependency you have
on price signals hurting them, right?
Because we don't want to have that situation happen.
And so one of our successful programs is we fix the bill
for bill certainty for them if they sign up for smart device
and we drop it and we guarantee those savings.
So these are the things we're experimenting on
that could get some traction.
<v ->And I know we're short on time, so I'll be really quick.</v>
Innovation in the market.
So a lot of what we've talked about,
but also here at the show, the market continues to evolve.
So what kind of plans are we offering customers
so that they can save money?
What kind of tools are we giving them?
Understanding their different customer types.
Some wanna set it and forget it,
some wanna really dig into the details.
So just continuing to innovate around those offerings
so that customers have those options.
<v ->I'll kinda like play on that.</v>
Like as a technology producer,
we really want things to be complex
on like the utility side, like all these options,
and then it's up to us to develop the technology
so that way we make it really easy for the customer
to just do it automatically.
So pushed for more complexity and like the more constraints
and options that are out there,
but then the interface of the customer needs to be simple.
<v ->Great. Well that's all the time we have.</v>
Thank you so much, panel, for joining us for this.
And we have a 20 minute networking break,
and then join us later tonight for our networking reception.
You can RSVP online or at that QR code there.
And thanks again to our sponsors.
And then if you want to check out our research,
we've got it on our website,
but you could also click this QR code.
Thank you everyone, and stay tuned for our next session.