<v ->Welcome, everybody. Thanks for joining us.</v>
I am Drew Schiller, I'm the co-founder and CEO at Validic.
Thanks for coming to our panel and the future of funding.
In addition to being the CEO of Validic,
which is a digital health company
that brings personal health data
from digital health apps, wearables, in-home health devices
into the healthcare system, I'm also
on the Health Division Board
of CTA, Consumer Technology Association, which puts on CES,
as well as the Board of Industry Leaders.
So really appreciate you all coming today.
And just to kinda set the table, digital health funding went
through a wild cycle over the last couple of years.
And that's what we're really here to talk about today is
to talk about, you know, what's gonna happen
in the future, right?
We saw startups go through a really challenging cycle
of down sales.
We saw a lot of valuation crunches.
We saw a lot of down rounds.
What's gonna happen in the future?
And our panelists here are gonna help tell us
what's gonna happen in the future.
And in this panel, I've talked to my team here,
and we have agreed to make this a little fun and engaging.
And we are going to say the quiet parts out loud.
And so what I mean by that is, I was
in a conversation the other day and somebody said,
"You know, the healthcare system's broken.
"You know, we need to fix it."
And I said, "Listen, I actually disagree with that.
"The healthcare system's not broken.
"It's working exactly as it's intended.
"It might not work very well for you and me,
"but it certainly works very well for the people at the top
"and for the people who are perpetuating it."
And that's the real challenge that we have to solve.
And Rene Quashie said to me, who's head
of Digital Health at CTA, said to me,
"Whoa, that's something you wouldn't say on stage."
And I said, "I bet you I will." (laughing)
So that's what we're gonna do today in our introductions.
We're going to, I'm gonna ask my panelists each
to introduce themselves very quick,
name, rank, serial number, what they do
in digital health very quickly.
And then, what is the unsaid thing that they are solving
that maybe they wouldn't normally say in their introduction.
So Megan, I'm gonna start with you.
<v ->Challenge accepted, I guess.</v>
Thanks for having me. This is super fun.
I'm Megan Zweig, I'm the President and CEO
of Rock Health Advisory.
We exist to support enterprises
with their digital health innovation strategies.
Other parts of Rock Health, we have a venture funds.
We're doing early investing.
We also have rockhealth.org,
which is our nonprofit, really focused
on making sure that innovation
and technology are closing equity gaps as opposed
to exacerbating them.
We were founded back in 2010
and I think, at that time, there was a ton
of skepticism about digital health.
And so I think the unsaid thing was like,
how do we even start to create this market?
How do we even start to convince key stakeholders
and health systems and health plans
and life sciences companies that, you know, I think
what was thought of as like the Silicon Valley bros,
like have something to bring to the table.
That like software is eating the world
and yes, it's going to eat healthcare as well.
And I think we decided to exist because we needed
to bridge those worlds
and figure out where collaboration made sense.
Fast forward to today, I think we now exist really
because there's still so much friction that exists
between incumbents and between emerging players,
small players, big players.
And there's a lot that goes unsaid in terms of
how are the cultures different,
how are the capabilities different,
how are the incentives really different,
and that's gonna impact success.
And so I think we really exist to help be a translator
between all of these pieces
and really always look at things from the perspective
of the consumer, the patient, incentives aside.
Like what is the world that we are trying
to build towards and how do we get there.
<v ->And, dude, by incentives, you mean</v>
if it doesn't make ROI in plan year,
it ain't getting funded.
<v ->Hi, Ben Schlatka, I'm partner in Material Impact Fund.</v>
We're a Boston-based venture capital fund
with approximately $800 million under management.
I'm proud to say before I joined
that team, I was an entrepreneur.
I'm up here with a lot of CEOs and leaders
of great healthcare organizations.
I led a digital health company for 12 years
through an acquisition, and then spent two years
at the acquirer,
so I got to see the other side of what
that journey looked like.
I think one of the unstated, well, it's part
of our mandate, but as it relates
to material science innovation,
and the tough tech ecosystem, we really focus
on underrepresented health.
So that could be access, that could be diagnostics,
that could be care often through the combination
of breakthrough devices that leverage some sort
of material science along with analytics.
And I'm proud to say that one of our portfolio companies
and, by extension, teammates is up here on stage, Alicia,
so I'll pass it to you.
<v ->Thank you. Hi, everyone, I'm Alicia.</v>
I'm the founder and CEO at BloomerTech.
Our company is focused on heart disease in women,
which is the leading cause of death
and disability worldwide.
And today, it is harder to recognize, diagnose,
and treat it in women.
We've created a wearable bra
that collects data all around the torso
in a medical-grade way.
We call it a textile sensory intelligence,
and we can inform cardiologists and patients
about her heart, her lungs, her hormones,
and her metabolism, right?
So we're taking healthcare all the way over
to the unspoken thing,
which is the huge problem in the healthcare system
of most of our system is designed around male physiology.
It's not doing the work that it needs
to diagnose women properly so
that they can get the right intervention.
It is seven times harder
to diagnose a woman today with heart disease.
So this is a huge problem.
And I think when we look
at the true unspoken things is the value that it creates
to do female-specific solutions.
Just last year, Shockwave Medical, which got a huge,
I think, one of the largest acquisitions,
if not the largest, they are the only ones
that have done a female-only study
of their technology, which is for an intervention
to the heart, right?
So the value of doing this is highly significant,
and we're not looking at these industries how we should
because of the potential of these untapped opportunities
because we haven't served populations
that are different for a long time.
<v ->Yeah, I love that. Thanks, Alicia.</v>
I mean, men's health has certainly served me well,
but it hasn't served the rest of the,
like the other half of the population, right?
And I think that's exactly what needs to happen.
Okay, so to start us off, Ben, so I've been talking
to some friends of mine who are in VC, in fact one
who recently switched VCs
because the VC he was at raised a fund in 2018.
And now, for the life of them,
because they've been unable to return capital
because of the market downturn
in digital health, they cannot raise their next fund.
They have no idea when they're gonna be able
to close their next fund.
And you know, I'm seeing this as a real trend
and so I'm just curious, you know, do we expect there
to be less investor capital in general?
Like in digital health specifically,
but maybe more in general, what are you seeing in that?
<v ->Well, I'm gonna (clears throat) defer</v>
to my esteemed panelists for some of the statistics
'cause Megan is closely focused on this issue.
But I can definitely touch on the macro point of view.
If I look over the last two years, obviously,
venture capital funding has come down significantly.
If you look at new first-time fund starts, some
of the lowest in years.
If capital is being deployed, it's being deployed
towards the top 10% of money managers who tend
to have very large funds and who tend
to have very mature companies
that are staying private longer
'cause the IPO window has closed.
That money that's getting deployed there is
definitely coming at the expense of new, exciting startups.
So that's the cynical moment we're in.
I think Megan might have some perspectives on
where we may be headed on that topic.
But that said, you know,
I'll just use our firm as an example.
We announced our third fund at the end of 2023.
So you know, there was an example of first time,
second time, third time fund.
It was our largest fund, so definitely some momentum there.
To mention partners, I just announced
a $500 million crossover fund between biology
and technology focused on life science tools.
So I think for the right theses
and the right teams, capital is still getting deployed
to newer money managers.
I think, also, I see in the seed and A-round deals,
the newest of new capital still being deployed
to innovative companies.
There is still this view, though,
that particularly in the digital health sector,
if you raised a lot of capital and you got to a spot
where your valuation was high
and you hadn't quite proved out your business model,
you hadn't shown a path to profitability,
that's a really difficult spot for those companies to be in.
Many companies, though, led
by experienced entrepreneurs tacked into the wind
and, you know, readjusted their operations very quickly.
And I think those companies will come out the other side.
I think about a little bit like my grandmother
that grew up in the Depression and made it
to '93, walked two miles a day and could beat me
in arm wrestling till I was 30.
Some of that was genetics, but I think it was a lot
of the environment she grew up in,
and I think the best companies come out
of those environments.
<v ->Yeah, you know, it's a really, really good point.</v>
And I'm thinking that maybe underpinning
what you said, I'm just curious
if you could validate this or not.
Maybe it's the first-time funds
where their first fund was raised in 2018,
they don't have an operational history,
they haven't had the exits.
Maybe they're the ones who are struggling more?
<v ->I don't have primary data on it.</v>
'cause it doesn't apply to us.
<v ->I'm asking for your gut.</v>
<v ->Yeah, but I get the sense that if you've been out</v>
in the market for a really long time
and have a great track record
and you're large, it's easier for sure.
And if you're a newer fund,
you definitely have a differentiated point of view.
You have to have a great portfolio
that, you know, LPs are excited about as you start
to raise subsequent funds.
But let's ask the expert.
<v ->No, I'm good, I'm good.</v>
What I'll add to that is when we look across industries,
so not just in healthcare,
there's incredible capital concentration among
what are now deemed mega funds,
so those funds that have at least $500 million to deploy.
I think it was PitchBook, they reported
that over 2024, it was something like nine funds raised 50%
of all capital from LPs.
Just looking at General Catalyst
and Andreessen Horowitz, they raised 20% between the two
of them of all capital raised by venture funds.
So that is not some, we have not seen
that degree of capital concentration in the past.
GC, Andreessen also are huge investors in digital health.
According to our tracking, they had the most deals last year
in terms of any VCs.
I think it was something like 14 deals plus each.
And so I do think that to your point, there has
to be true differentiation among the smaller funds in terms
of what that value add is.
I think the big funds, I mean they're huge power,
huge networks, huge expertise,
but they also really can tip the scale when it comes
to terms and when it comes to the trajectory of the company.
<v Ben>Agree with that.</v>
<v ->Yeah, all right.</v>
So let's expand on that a little bit more.
I was telling you just before this
that I heard this week from a VC
that they have a digital health practice
and they are now only investing in companies
that are outside of the traditional healthcare system.
Which kind of blew my mind when this is like
the largest part of the economy of the largest economy
in the history of the world. (chuckles)
And then, they're trying to invest in companies
that are outside.
And I think you made a really good point,
which I hope you'll make again around that.
But what are some of the trends that you're seeing outside
of my anecdotal surprise there with Rock Health?
<v ->Yeah, yeah, so we track venture funding every year.</v>
We're looking at funding that's flowing
into US-based digital health startups.
Our next report is gonna be published on Monday,
so I can give you a little bit of a sneak peek on that.
When we look at 2024, we saw about $10 billion
that was invested
in these US-based digital health companies.
That's actually pretty similar to
what we saw the year prior.
It is much lower than what we saw
in those peak years of '21, '22
where we saw it was something like, you know, I think it was
over $20 billion invested into the space.
I think what's interesting, though, is when you look
at the numbers compared to 2019, so using that
as kind of like the pre-COVID benchmark year, the dollars
that were invested this past year,
if you look at it inflation adjusted,
were essentially the same as what was invested in 2019.
So we're almost kind of back
into this pre-pandemic funding level.
Couple interesting dynamics, though.
One is that we saw more funding last year flowing
into early-stage companies.
So in '21, '22, there was so much capital available.
You had a ton of these mega deals,
these deals over a hundred million dollars.
You saw the volume of those deals really shrink
over the past year.
So that brought funding numbers down,
and you saw more investment going
into these earlier stage companies, I think,
who don't quite have those valuation hangovers relative
to the companies that raised
at really high valuations in '21, '22.
So little bit of a dichotomy of, yes, still a ton
of momentum and investment going
into those early-stage companies,
but at the same time you have capital concentration
among venture funds.
And also, we can get to this later,
but I think that there's also a lot
that's happening in the market
that is creating, I'll just say, more power, more influence
among like the Goliaths of the healthcare industry.
When you think about who's building foundational AI models,
who's even building a lot of those application layers
on top, it is the big tech companies.
It is the most well-funded startups that we see
in the space.
Part of that is driven by enterprise demand.
They don't want point solutions.
They want something that's gonna be able to integrate
across all their AI use cases,
so you see the Kamirs of the world, the Abridges
of the world filling that need.
And so I think there's this interesting dichotomy right now
of, yes, investors are still really excited
about early-stage innovation, but when you look at some
of the big plays that happened this past year
of the big pharma companies going direct to consumer
for the first time with PfizerForAll, with LillyDirect.
When you look at just the big tech companies
and all the plays that they are making with Cerner,
with Epic on the AI front, a lot of the big moves
that we're seeing are really coming from those big players.
<v ->Yeah, yeah, that's really great.</v>
And you know, Alicia, I'd love to, you
and I are kinda like living through this together, man,
this like rollercoaster ride over the last, you know,
four, five, six years, et cetera.
I mean, I've been doing this for a long time,
but it's been pretty wild to see like
what happened 2020, '21, '22,
and then like, whoa, just like bottom dropped out, right?
And now, we're seeing the return.
And Megan just mentioned a couple companies,
I won't rename if you guys remember who they are.
I'm not gonna say 'em again,
but I'll just say like a hundred X revenue valuations.
So we're seeing the return of some
of these mega valuations now.
And I'm curious, like, as a startup founder,
as a CEO, as you're navigating this, like
how do you think about steering the company
through these like peaks and valleys
of, you know, valuations and capital funding?
<v ->Yes, thank you.</v>
I think one of the things
that we've seen throughout this roller coaster,
as you call it, we've seen companies raise a ton of money
and those rise and falls and people trying to figure out
that sustainable growth strategy.
For us, we were very clear since our inception
that we wanted to grow with the company.
And I think one of the things that hit me very hard
at the very beginning was when my co-founder, we both met
at MIT, told me at the very beginning,
"Hey, we can't continue not sleeping
"and doing like we're running a marathon,
"being like we're running a sprint instead
"of a marathon, right?
"Like, we need to be more sustainable if we want
"to take this for the long run."
Because we chose to be in deep tech.
We chose to be in women's health, which
for a long time has been severely underfunded
for hundreds of years.
And we chose to build a physical regulated product, right?
We wanted to validate something clinical
with clinical quality.
So this was not going to happen overnight.
We needed time to collect the right data.
We needed time to ensure that we create the value
that we need.
So for us, it was about getting the right partners
at the right time so that we could deliver
what we envisioned our company is going to become
and how we're going to transform healthcare.
So we went into finding the right partners,
which means they have experience in cardiology
and if they have experience taking technology out
of the lab.
And we did this, and to give you a little bit
of the glance, right?
Like, we met at MIT.
We were part of MIT's Computational Cardiovascular
Research Group and a program called Integrated Design
and Management, which focuses
on product design and development.
And in 2017, we realized we should incorporate,
'cause this is a huge opportunity,
like the market is untapped.
But we graduated in 2018,
and when we graduated we focused
on our early feasibility studies, all of this
with non-dilutive funding.
2020, we raised our first round, our seed round.
We closed it in February.
What happened in March? The pandemic.
And bear in mind,
we were building a physical product, right?
And then, all of these roller coasters
that you're talking about started to happen
and we saw companies rise and fall, rise and fall.
So I've kept in mind what my co-founder said,
"This is a marathon.
"We need to build sustainable growth.
"We need to be laser focused on the type
"of company we need to build."
And I think that's how we've been able
to go through these cycles and seeing everything
that's happening and being mindful
of getting the right partnerships, ensuring
that we meet the ecosystem that we're building
because we could use our sensor technology
for different applications.
We've chosen this area because we see huge trends
and opportunities here.
And just last year, it was announced
that the femtech industry is worth $1.5 trillion.
And heart disease is the largest challenge
in those trends.
So we do believe we're on the right track there.
<v Drew>Go Bloomer.</v>
<v ->You know, I'll just comment on</v>
what Alicia has said from an an investor perspective
'cause she's powerful, but she's humble.
This team is the definition of how
to operate a lean, scrappy, aggressive startup
while appreciating it's a marathon.
I mean, the things that this team gets done
with the resources that they have,
given the environment, is best of breed.
And I think, you know, that's a really tough choice
if you have access to capital to make the choice
that I'm gonna build the company in a very determinate way
that is gonna grow with the milestones that I hit.
And a lot of companies don't do that.
A lot of CEOs don't do that.
I think Alicia definitely stands out from the crowd in
that regard and so does Bloomer.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
<v ->Yeah, that's awesome.</v>
You know, we've all heard the phrase unicorn, right?
Which the startup with a billion dollar plus valuation,
which Arlene Chung coined that phrase like 15 years ago
in an article, intending it
to say a unicorn is something you don't see.
<v Ben>Then a goal, it became a goal.</v>
<v ->Then, it became a goal to become a unicorn.</v>
She, yeah, I've had a really funny conversation
with her about that.
She was somewhat regretful about creating that goal,
but the counterpart to a unicorn company
that I think you're talking
about, Alicia, is called a zebra, right?
And a zebra is a company that is able to live
within its own means, build within itself,
build an actual real company.
And so I really appreciate that.
You know, Alicia, one tag-on that I'll ask you about is
that one of the things that drove me most nuts,
and fortunately it didn't impact Validic too much
because, you know, we've been very thoughtful like you about
how we take capital and deploy it.
But this was really something that, I saw it
with a lot of my friends who had raised big rounds, is
that in 2021 and early '22, everything was about growth.
And it was like your cash graph
and it's like, "Oh, well, when you get to here,
"we just raise more money."
But as long as there was growth, right?
And what that meant was that we could use venture capital
to subsidize the cost of our product
for the health system.
The healthcare system was extremely stretched thin.
Health systems, especially, weren't able to afford things,
so there were free pilots.
You know, you were selling things
for whatever people could pay for it,
which oftentimes was actually less than the cost
of servicing the product.
And that was all subsidized by venture capital.
And then, what happened was 2022, mid '22 hit
into '23, venture capital evaporated.
And now, all of a sudden, you have a business model
that just doesn't work in that environment
and you can't raise any more capital.
And so that's why I think we saw so many companies squeeze.
So I'm curious, Alicia, if you saw any of that
or felt any of that or like kinda what your perspective is?
<v ->Sure, I think we definitely saw a lot of that, especially</v>
how it hit people's payrolls and you see the layoffs
and you see all of these things happening with many
of the digital health companies
that you either admired, looked up to.
And you saw that they raised a lot of funding
and that they were deploying and having a lot of engagement.
And it seemed a lot like the tech bubble
that happened even before that.
So at the same time, right, like we're very
into the evidence.
And some of these companies also had this gray area
of not having scientific papers published,
of not having enough support for the outcomes
that they were seeing.
So some of the things
that have vanished, you're actually kind
of wanting more evidence.
They spent so much money, how come if you have access-
<v Ben>Are you saying they deserved it?</v>
<v ->No, no, not. Eh, I wouldn't say that.</v>
But I think it's good examples of how you can learn from
what you see, so that you can avoid some of those pitfalls.
I think it's something that for a long time because, right,
like the more money you take, the more you have
to deliver and return at the same time.
And if you raised a ton of money
before having the value in your product
because you haven't figured that value yet, you're not going
to be able to sell it at the price point that you need
to sell it to deliver the money back.
So it goes hand on hand.
You have, again, you have to grow sustainably
with your company to be able to sell and push it
to the market when it has the right value instead
of like not having the evidence.
We're talking about people's lives and people's health
at the end of the day, right?
It's not just a tech product that will,
yeah, you know what I mean.
<v ->Yeah, no, totally. I totally agree.</v>
And so Ben, I'm gonna transition to you because-
<v ->I'm ready.</v>
<v ->You know, Alicia just said, you know,</v>
the mega valuations were starting to come back to it.
AI is like all the craze, and I'm curious,
and you mentioned, Megan, a couple
of those companies, I'm curious
how big of a role is AI playing in your investment thesis?
And how do you even vet the companies and like
what they claim are their technologies
because it's brand new, a lot of it?
<v ->Yeah, I certainly can comment on that</v>
from our perspective, which by definition links the concept
of AI to a physical product,
which may be a little bit different
than a pure play software company that's applying it
to the healthcare system.
So A, it's important.
We have several investments where AI is critically featured
in the business.
If I think about healthcare broadly,
my first segmentation would be is
in a company using AI addressing an operational efficiency
within the healthcare system
or are they addressing a clinical need
in the system with AI?
And I guess, from my perspective,
if it's the first, you ought to show up to an investor
with an example that works if it's an operational efficiency
and you can prove it because that is something you can do
by the time you reach
an institutional investment inflection point.
On the clinical side, we sort of see it
as it follows really good evidence generation.
You can see AI applied to algorithms on the clinical side.
I'm personally a little skeptical that
in the near term, you're gonna see
an FDA-regulated product where AI is suddenly just improving
whatever the FDA certified.
I think that's kind of a future state
where regulatory frameworks have to evolve for
where technology can be accurately applied
to cost savings and efficiency elsewhere
in the healthcare system, particularly
on the operational side.
Megan, you probably have some opinions on that, I think.
<v ->Yeah, actually, I may have a question for like both</v>
of you, which is, I heard something the other day,
which is that investors are going to believe
that companies are going to need less capital
because if they use gen AI and all the machine learning
and everything that we have available today, they're going
to be able to build a company more quickly
and with less capital.
And so what it takes to build a digital health company
now actually is gonna require less capital than
when you like founded your company, for example.
And so I was curious like how do you think about that
from a CEO running your company where the tech stack
that you probably originally built very different than
what is required now and from an investor standpoint, like
how are you factoring that in?
And I'm not talking about the startups
that are selling algorithms as their business,
but every startup right now is thinking about
how do I use gen AI capabilities
to make my business more capital efficient?
<v ->And just to be clear, you're talking</v>
about the actual building of the company?
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->Yeah, well, I'll say I don't think it's percolated its way</v>
through the heuristics that investors use
on what capital a company needs.
At this moment in time,
given all the things we just talked about,
the much bigger statement is you have to be lean
and you have to be efficient with capital
'cause it's hard to come by.
And that's probably the lowest common denominator
in the perspective.
But I'll say, organically, like over our 35 companies,
I just, and I think about running a company 10 years ago
and doing like marketing work and now watching like some
of our portfolio companies, Alicia included, teach me like
how they're so much more efficiently doing the mundane tasks
of like building a great company
that are functional in nature.
And so what we see is more of like a cross-pollinization.
Like if I see somebody developing amazing artwork
and graphics for pennies instead of $50,000
with a brand agency, I'd put that CEO in touch
with five others that are at that inflection point
'cause they're doing that kind of thing.
And that's sort
of percolating around our portfolio actively.
<v ->Yeah, I think it's a really great point</v>
and it's a great question.
Just to give you my perspective quickly,
so most of my friends
who are digital health founders now are getting a lot
further faster, which is actually good
because right now, you know, it used to be seed funding was,
or pre-seed funding was an idea.
Seed funding was like maybe a little bit of revenue
and certainly a product.
And you know, series A was certainly like sub,
if you were at a million in ARR, you were like definitely
that was great.
And everything is increased now.
Like now, pre-seed you've gotta have a half million dollars
and you like you have to have a product
and half million dollars in revenue.
And then, you know, seed funding, you've gotta have,
you know, a million dollars.
And A is like, you know, 3 million, maybe 5 million
or at least eyes toward it.
And like that's not exact.
Like there's certainly categories where that doesn't fit,
but you have to go a lot farther with less.
And so I think AI certainly helps with that.
I'll say from our perspective as a growth stage company,
we're actually now uniquely looking at a spot where we think
that we can double our revenue
without increasing our headcount.
And it's not because, I mean substantially.
There will be certain roles like client success
that we really need to continue to invest,
but we are seeing so much more efficiency in other areas
of the business that it's pretty impactful
for us using AI internally.
<v ->I think, and what you just said</v>
about client success, I think, is really important
because when you saw those incredibly high valuations,
I think that there was this mistake
that everybody was making of like digital health companies
as a category are going to have SaaS-like returns.
And so we're going to value it as such.
And the reality is that we know healthcare is messy
and complicated and requires so much change management
and sustained change management.
And so what I hear from a lot
of founders is like, we're actually, yes,
of course we wanna automate as much as we can,
but we're never going to get rid of the services component
of our business because that's how we are sticky.
That's how we earn trust.
That's how we actually change behavior and care protocols
and practices and all the things that we need to do
with our clients.
And that actually has to be sustained.
And that requires a change on the part
of investors, I think, to figure out, okay,
what are the margins of this business actually look like
if it's not pure SaaS?
And we're actually allowing
for more variation in these different types of companies,
whether there's a device involved, whether it is just SaaS,
whether it's, you know, SaaS plus really embedded
tightly partnered services
because that's what the healthcare system needs
from their partners to drive change.
<v ->Yeah, yeah, absolutely.</v>
All right, Alicia, we're talking
about the future of funding.
What is something
that you wish every investor would know going forward
for you about running a startup
that would make them better partners?
<v ->I think-</v>
<v ->Keeping in mind</v>
that Ben is sitting right next to you.
<v ->I think Drew's trying to end the panel</v>
with some provocative debate.
Alicia, I'm gonna close my ears. Go ahead.
<v ->Yeah, something that I wish that partners like Ben knew,</v>
no, no, just kidding.
So yeah, like one of the things that we've seen
in the last few years, right,
and I'm just going to ask Ben a few questions
since he was an entrepreneur before becoming an investor
as he shared is if you could give us an example of
when did you last launch your first product?
<v ->We launched our first consumer product in 2012</v>
and our first regulated healthcare product in 2016.
<v ->Okay, and when you built that product,</v>
where did you build it?
<v ->Well, the team, one team, one roof.</v>
Pretty much one big room and, you know, through that-
<v ->All of you guys were together?</v>
<v ->Yes in the-</v>
<v ->Going to the office every day.</v>
<v ->Every day.</v>
<v ->The traditional way</v>
of the past.
<v ->The traditional way of the past, yes.</v>
<v ->So we closed around in 2020,</v>
and things dramatically changed even
if you're building a physical product, right?
In the early days, for us, right, we were going
with our masks.
And fortunately, all of us were in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
so we can go and take the physical product
to someone else's house.
We had to basically build labs
in their houses so that they could work,
so that we could test and validate
and continue moving the company forward.
So I think one of the things is investors look a lot
at patterns and like what has happened in the past
to project the future and all of the data.
But we are living in dramatically different times right now.
And the way that the company is run is differently,
the way the talent wants to work.
Some of the things we really have to do hands-on together.
Other things, everyone wants to work remote.
Everyone wants more flexibility, right?
And you want to hire the right talents
that really cares about what you're building
and you want to also build a heart-healthy company, right?
Like we are all about heart health,
so we think about all of these things into
how we wrap all of the different areas
and departments of our company.
And for me, it's really important
that we don't get compared to companies
that have done things differently at different times, right?
Like we are living in really different times.
We're also unlocking a new category
in the cardiovascular industry
because for such a long time, it's been universal.
So for me, it's really important to kind of open
to this new wave and how we can use AI, right?
Like with our team, I think it's super important
that we open new roles at the right time, right?
Because in small teams, you need
to have people wear many hats.
The right tools, if you choose to have a subscription
for some of these tools, Copilot, call it whatever.
They can perform more than if you hire a new person
that will need to ramp up.
Or right now, they're spread thin, you actually have to hire
that person, right?
So making all of these decisions, we're
in a different time, right?
Like I think it's super important
to think about these different patterns
and look at it in a different way.
What do you think, Ben?
<v ->Well, so I agree with the facts</v>
that building a regulated medical product
over the trailing three years was
a fundamentally different endeavor
than doing it six years ago or 12 years ago.
And I do agree that you have to, as an investor
or an entrepreneur, look at that moment in time.
I would say if we look at one of our host's books,
Gary Shapiro, the title is "Pivot or Die."
I actually do think, though, that, that is a universal truth
and a heuristic for young technology companies.
And I think you just gave a couple great examples of
how you're doing it.
That actually I don't think has changed.
I mean, yes, the circumstances of the last three
or four years are obviously unique in history,
but the companies that are gonna survive
that are gonna use the age-old adage, pivot or die.
<v ->Yeah, and I'll just say that my best board members, just</v>
to validate, Alicia, what you were, I think, saying
about Ben, my best board members are the ones
with actual operational history
that have actually built companies first.
Whether it's founded or at least operated
at a senior level in them makes a huge difference.
Those who came straight out of finance,
we have some different conversations sometimes.
So wrapping-up question, you know, CES we're here.
It's all about the future and robots
that clean swimming pools.
So 10 years from now, we are going like, let's just say
that we're going to reconvene this panel.
So without naming a specific company
or anything like that, what is one area of digital health
that you see will have,
that you predict will have transformed the industry?
And then, what's one area of digital health
that was like completely overvalued
and has totally bombed out?
Megan, we'll start with you.
<v ->Oh, goodness. (chuckling) Is AI a category?</v>
Let's see.
I think that if we do this well, I'm gonna come back
to like the equity comment that I made at the top,
I think that right now there is still a lot
that is being built, which is built as intended
as you said, to serve the incentives that exist.
But too few people have access to great care.
And I think we are at a real rocky moment
in terms of the degree of trust
that consumers have in the healthcare system.
So what I hope in 10 years is that we have been able
to leverage this for good,
and I don't really mind where the innovation is coming from,
if it's coming from the small players or the big players
or the incumbents or newcomers.
But I do think that we need to figure out what is going
to build trust with consumers.
Because right now, they're actually willing to go outside
of the system, experiment,
use these direct-to-consumer companies.
You know, I was chatting with someone, they're like,
"We're seeing like a rise in acupuncture
"and naturopathic medicine."
Like people really want different sorts of solutions.
And so I think if we do this well, we kind
of reinstate trust in whatever that system looks like,
and that it is really serving those people.
So I know I kinda cheated,
I didn't really say like one thing.
But I think that digital health really plays a role
in creating that trust and access.
<v ->I love that. Yeah, that's great.</v>
All right, Ben, we got not much time left, let's go.
<v ->Okay, I'll make it fast.</v>
I think, prediction, looking out 10 years
from now, all the major tech companies are gonna continue
to invest in digital health infrastructure.
But by virtue of their businesses,
it's gonna be largely horizontal.
And that's gonna leave a major opportunity
to develop clinically specific care pathways
for the home and chronic disease management
because nobody here, if you're ill, would prefer
to be in a hospital than your home
unless it's for something incredibly acute like a surgery
or an emergency room triage.
So I think there's gonna be a great opportunity
for companies that figure out that care pathway
for a particular disease
and build the right technology solution
that will include sensors, data, and healthcare services.
And I think something that, well, I won't go
with the bomb 'cause I wanna give Alicia a chance
to answer the question.
<v ->No, thank you.</v>
So prediction, I think women's health is human's health.
We have done so much for male health so far
and it's changed the industry,
and women's health will change the industry
for both men and women.
So I think if we do this right
where we're not doing like the pink tags
where we're putting pink on a razor and it's the same thing,
but we're actually going deep
into changing the way we provide care for women.
It's going to be significant the way that we improve quality
of lives and the way that we build products in the future.
And in terms of what's overhyped, I think a lot
of services that we're seeing, right, similar
to what I was saying about the pink tags.
Replicating things just with a different catchy phrase,
we're going to see those fade out more.
<v ->That's great. Awesome.</v>
Well, my prediction is that CES is going to be the place
to see those futures.
<v ->Agreed.</v>
<v ->So please keep coming back.</v>
<v ->See you guys next year.</v>
<v ->Yeah, and thank you all for joining us in this panel.</v>
Please join me in thanking my panelists.
Yeah, we look forward to talking soon.