<v ->Welcome to the 19th annual Connections Summit at CES.</v>
I'm Jennifer Kent,
vice president of Research with Parks Associates.
We are so pleased to be hosting this event today.
Conversations all day long from the industry leaders
making it happen all across the connected home
on some of the most critical conversations
that are happening in this market.
I happen to find a picture of the conversations
that were happening 10 years ago back in 2015.
We love to hear what you're working on,
what the big questions are,
and really to see how this market has expanded and evolved.
And that a lot has happened over the past 10 years.
Parks Associates' research shows that
the average American internet household
has over 17 connected devices today,
more than two times the amount of connected devices
they had back in 2015.
And the percentage of households
that have at least one smart home device,
not including smart speakers and smart displays,
so think locks, lights, thermostats, door locks,
garage openers, you know,
plugs, power strips, smart appliances,
45% of 5X from back in 2014.
So a lot has happened.
There are a lot of big questions
for the industry leaders today,
such as how do you serve an increasingly mainstream end user
when you have 45% of households now
having a smart home product?
You're really actually looking
at a different type of customer.
How can consumer IoT business units operate profitably,
perhaps within a larger, more traditional manufacturer?
We see that a lot.
What is my competitive edge in the AI arms race?
We're talking today, this morning, right,
jumping right into AI in the smart home.
What does that mean for your strategic plans
for the competitive landscape?
We're gonna talk a lot about standards today.
How do standards efforts unlock new opportunity
and also new competition?
What market segments are right for expansion?
How do I leverage my assets
to better serve other ecosystem players
and not just that end user?
We're gonna be talking about a lot of that today
across our different panels.
We're also kicking off in about a month,
our big B2B industry research effort
where we are very interested in what you're struggling with
and what you're seeing
as you're working on consumer IoT products.
And we're gonna release the results of that research
at our Connections event in May.
So if you wanna participate in that research,
it comes with a free pass to Connections.
You can scan this QR code.
And when we have that survey ready,
we'll reach out to you to participate.
So you can see today we are starting off at
with AI in the Smart Home,
talking about applications and ethics.
We're talking about profitability next at 10 o'clock.
At the top of every hour
where we're running into a new topic.
Smart Home Standards and Platforms at 11 o'clock.
We'll have lunch first come, first serve
in the room to the left.
If you go out to the hallway to the left.
A big thank you to ADT for sponsoring that lunch.
We're back in the afternoon talking about energy,
talking about multifamily markets,
and also what's happening in home security.
And we invite all of you to attend
our VIP networking reception
over at Treasure Island this evening.
It is complimentary.
You're all welcome to attend.
We do ask that you RSVP so that we have a headcount
and you can do that with this form at this QR code.
So with that, I'd love to invite my panelists up
to jump right into our first topic of the day,
AI in the Smart Home: Applications and Ethics.
Come on up and join me.
Okay, yeah.
And as they do that, I just wanna set the scene.
We have a lot to talk about today,
so I'm just gonna jump in and get running.
You know, there's a lot of possibility
of what AI can really add to the connected home landscape.
A lot of what we see in the smart home specifically
is adding to better understanding of the context
of an action or an event or a call for assistance.
What is happening?
Who is in the home that gets to identity?
Who is in the home?
Is it a known person?
Is it an unknown person?
How do I authenticate myself for access into the home?
I lost my slides, but that's okay.
Also, things like communication
and communicating both between people,
between people and devices,
and between the devices themselves.
But our data also shows that 71% of consumers
are concerned about society's ability to control
and ethically control and develop AI.
And so what does that mean for everybody in the room?
What does that mean for the smart home market?
So I'm very excited to have
all sorts of leaders in this space
to really talk about the challenges, the opportunities,
and how you're using AI today.
I'd love to bring the slides up
so that we can show everybody in the audience.
Here we go.
There we go.
So we can see your beautiful pictures
and everybody can see your names and your titles.
So we have Arsham,
who's the SVP of Product and Technology
with Universal Electronics.
Amalia, who's the head of Strategic Marketing
with Intuition Robotics.
Casey, the director of Business Development with Josh.ai.
Paulus, who's the president of the Open Home Foundation.
And Paul Williams,
the global managing director
for the Home Management Business unit with the Nice Group.
So I'd love to really start by diving in
and asking each of you
as you sort of introduce yourselves and your organizations
to tell us how are you using AI today?
Arsham, you could start.
<v ->Good morning.</v>
Ooh, first day of the show.
Hopefully everybody is ready and pumped.
UEI designs, develops, and manufactures
entertainment and smart home products with strong focus
on climate control and energy management
in more recent years.
Now, AI fits throughout the full lifecycle
of a product company like ours.
So from design and development,
if you think about it,
you can have any software engineer
that's not using AI on a daily basis,
you should probably reconsider that engineer
and probably move on to somebody
who can use the tools today better
to double faster, more efficiently, and better quality.
When you go into manufacturing,
you certainly can apply AI to have much better yields,
much better quality,
and even fine tune and calibrate things
that previously were not even possible.
So design and development is quite obvious,
From DevOps perspective,
our cloud servers today,
so a part of our products is a software only product
that resides on hundreds of millions of
connected entertainment devices in the homes today.
We serve about 100 million households every single week.
About 30% of these actually use the cloud services
on a daily basis.
And about 55% of them use AI-powered APIs from our servers
to achieve certain functionality for personalization
and optimizing the experiences.
So we've taken everything
from software side and hardware side,
and we're putting it together
in the next generation of our product development
to deliver an on-device AI framework
that can both protect the privacy and personalization,
the privacy and security required in a home,
but provide that personalization framework
that a lot of the applications that we're focused on
can actually benefit from.
Everything from energy management
around occupancy in a fully private fashion,
and personalization based on
proximity and movement throughout the home,
guests and guests coming and going.
And rather than hoarding all this data on a central server,
we actually allow your devices
to get to know you through time,
adapt to you and adapt to your changes through your time.
So we'll talk more about
how we look at privacy and security in this fashion.
<v ->Yeah, fantastic context.</v>
Personalization, presence, fantastic.
Amalia, tell us a little bit more about Intuition
and how you're using AI today.
<v ->Hi, good morning everyone.</v>
Thank you for having me.
I'm thrilled.
So, as Jennifer said,
I lead marketing for Intuition Robotics.
Intuition Robotics is the creator of ElliQ.
ElliQ is an AI companion built to live with older adults,
help them on their health and wellness journey,
help them live at home independently longer,
help them live happier and healthier lives.
ElliQ is a non humanoid robot.
She's a tabletop device.
And she's basically built
on both AI and scripted conversations.
But AI has really been a game changer for us
in making ElliQ a smarter, more connected companion.
She's able to have much more in-depth conversations.
We have an orchestrator
that basically decides on each interaction
whether she'll go to our own LLM, open-source LLM,
or a scripted conversation.
And this allows her to personalize herself to each user,
contextualize her interactions,
and also build a memory for each user.
So the longer she lives with someone,
the smarter she becomes, the more in tune with their needs.
She knows which interactions to initiate.
I did not mention that as far as we know,
ElliQ is the only proactive,
fully functional AI agent today.
So she's not just prompt-based,
she doesn't wait to be spoken to,
she really initiates interactions.
And we leverage AI hugely to be able to do that
and to be able to do that in a fashion
that is non-obtrusive, that drives to action,
that helps us realize our goals
that are obviously aligned with goals
to help users live happier, healthier lives.
So for example,
if we know that a user didn't sleep very well
and ElliQ asks in the morning,
hi, how are you Jennifer?
How did you sleep today?
And if you say, oh, I didn't have a great night.
So she'll remember that.
And maybe around 5:00 or 6:00 she'll ask you,
maybe you wanna have some breathing exercises
before you go to sleep or maybe a short meditation session.
And if you'll agree, she'll ask you the next day.
So she's really sort of ongoing relationship conversation.
How do you sleep?
And if you said, oh, I was better tonight.
So she'll initiate
the same kind of interaction next evening.
If it doesn't work,
maybe she'll ask you in the morning
if you wanna do a short yoga session,
or maybe she'll suggest to call your doctor
or call your daughter or call your son
or a different loved one
to see whether they can help.
So we really do leverage AI
to also be able to have those interactions,
but to also have a much more natural and wide
and deep conversation.
So ElliQ can talk with the users about the meaning of life.
She can interpret their dreams,
she can talk to them about childhood memories,
she can talk to them about sporting events, historic events.
So really everything and anything.
<v ->Yeah, so it really sounds like</v>
when we talk about the various forms
or you know, subcategories of AI,
you're already really leaning into that creative,
you know, generative layer of AI with your ElliQ.
<v ->Yes, combined with her very unique character.</v>
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
Okay, Casey, tell us,
Josh.ai it's right in the name,
for those of in the crowd
who might not be familiar with what you do, right,
tell us all the layers of how you're leveraging AI
and some of your more recent announcements
of what the next generation looks like.
<v ->Yeah, absolutely.</v>
Good morning everybody.
Thank you to Parks Associates and everybody
for putting this on.
And also for all of you for waking up with us this morning
for the first one of these.
My name is Casey Levy-Tulloch,
director of Business Development at Josh.ai.
The way that I would put Josh in a nutshell
is that we are your smart home control system.
in the era of AI.
We offer all of your traditional interfaces,
a mobile app, a touchscreen, universal remote controls.
We also offer a couple different
far-field microphone products,
which leverage AI through, you know, throughout the process.
But it doesn't just start there with the user experience
and ultimately the different interfaces
that you use in the smart home
to talk to your connected devices.
We start by leveraging AI in the deployment process
and we'll probably get into that a bit more later.
But basically making the smart home simpler,
not only to interact with but also to commission, setup,
ultimately personalize and customize with natural scenes,
which I would say are maybe one of
the most powerful transformative aspects of the smart home
is creating a good morning or a good night scene.
We have a special tool
that we use called our Natural Language Scene Builder.
It's an extension
of our natural language processing with voice
where you can basically dictate
what you'd like that activation to be.
You want to dim your lights in the bedroom,
open the shades on the second floor,
listen to your favorite playlist,
you can simply dictate that to Josh.
You of course could program it or configure it as well.
But we're removing the barriers of complexity ultimately
for the the best custom and most personalized experiences
in the smart home.
In addition to that,
we are not just a smart home control system,
we also offer an intelligent assistant that we call JoshGPT.
We launched JoshGPT a couple summers ago
and basically built our own LLM on top of our core stack
of natural language processing in the home.
JoshGPT basically can answer
any sort of assistant type question or query
that you would have.
So you want a recipe while you're cooking,
you want travel recommendations
for your upcoming Vegas trip,
whatever it may be,
JoshGPT is your intelligent assistant
that we essentially can send those commands off to for,
you know, more engaging personalized experience as well.
But yeah, we'll get into much more later,
but that's a quick intro.
<v Jennifer>So quick follow up there.</v>
Can you share anything about what people are asking most?
What are they looking to know
or be assisted with with JoshGPT?
<v ->Yeah, JoshGPT I'd say recipes are really high up there.</v>
Naturally you're cooking in your kitchen,
your hands are busy,
so asking, you know,
how many table spoons are in this recipe
or how do I make chocolate chip cookies
or something like that.
But we actually just published
our top 10 voice commands of 2024.
And the top 10 were all device commands to the home.
So turn on the lights, open close the shades,
thermostat commands, music,
just kind of ranging across your different devices
and that ecosystem that is continuing to expand
in the home as well.
<v ->Okay, fantastic.</v>
And the creating of routines is really a big one.
We did some research in the past year around
how many households are actually
creating automations and routines between devices
to get more to that whole home vision
and of how a smart home can function.
And just 40% of smart home device owners today
are actually coordinating their devices in some way.
There's still a lot of friction
in trying to figure out how to make that happen.
Paulus, tell us more about the Open Home Foundation.
<v ->Yeah, good morning everyone.</v>
My name is Paulus Schoutsen,
I'm the president of the Open Home Foundation.
We're better known for our work on Home Assistant.
Home Assistant is a smart home platform
that probably all the engineers at your company
are always talking about.
It's a very big platform,
one of the most active open source project in the world
and has a big focus on local control and privacy.
So everybody can always run it at home.
And we believe that users, they own their data,
they can do with it what they want.
So when it comes to AI,
we've been very early adopters
giving AI hooks into Home Assistant,
let it read out information,
read out historical data, control devices.
We believe that right now our biggest use case
that we see users actually use it for is voice.
Because it's just nice that
if you talk to your voice assistant,
AI will make sure that it always understands
what you're trying.
And before it was like you need to say exactly
the way Google planned for you to control your lights.
Now you can be a bit more ambiguous.
For example, the other day I said,
I'm coming out of the shower, get my room ready,
and it closed my blinds and turned on my light,
without me saying anything of like that kind of thing.
And so,
making sure that voice commands are always successful,
that's like a big hit.
My son personally is like
querying Pokemon stuff all the time with AI,
which is also very good for.
But we see actually a very bigger role for AI.
We've already exposed it to, for example,
our automation engine.
So people will write automations,
gather some events that are happening in the house
and then ask an AI, is this a suspicious event?
And for example, if a door is opening at night
and you know that people are sleeping,
the lights are off, that's suspicious,
maybe we should wake up the homeowner.
And so just getting from the AI simple yes, no,
and then your automation can continue,
that's been a big hit as well.
So, yeah.
<v ->Yeah, I think where you guys sit is so interesting,</v>
just by the nature of kind of the open project
that you're working with,
you're dealing a lot with innovators
who really know what they want,
you know, out of the smart home.
How does that influence what they're asking for
when it comes to AI capabilities?
<v ->Well the main thing they always ask for</v>
is can we have all the data?
And we're like, yes, here is all the data.
But it also means that for example,
there's model context protocol,
which is a way of AI agents to talk to other systems,
which is like something that Anthropic just standardized.
Well, we've been adopting that
and we make sure that when now people writing agents,
which is gonna be the big thing I think in 2025,
they can talk to Home Assistant,
integrate that into whatever the agent is doing.
I don't believe Home Assistant
is gonna be the one running your agents
just because there's so much more in your life, right?
We are not locked into your work Slack,
nor do I want to be Home Assistant
have access to your work Slack,
but maybe you want your AI agent
to integrate that part of data as well.
But yeah, we see,
there's just so much stuff happening all the time
and basically Home Assistant,
because it's the only platform that is fully open,
people are just fully getting all the data out
and playing with it.
We see a lot of cool stuff happening.
<v ->Yeah, fantastic.</v>
Okay, Paul, tell us about Nice Group
and where you guys are really, you know,
placing your bets and pulling in the power of AI.
<v ->You bet, well, first of all,</v>
thank you for inviting me again.
I love these events, they're fantastic.
My name is Paul Williams.
I'm the global managing director
for home management at Nice.
And what that means is I have global responsibility
for anything to do with
smart home security and access control.
We manufacture smart home solutions,
everything from lighting control to HVAC, audio, video,
create your feature functions including security systems
to keep your home safe and secure at the same time too.
So we're leveraging AI in several different ways right now
with more coming into the future.
We just released our new voice platform,
which allows for natural voice control over the home
and all the functions within the home
that can be controlled with our solution.
Really on two big foundational issues.
First one was natural language
to be able to just not have to say a command word
and then remember exactly
what that light was called over there
because it won't listen to me
unless I manage the exact name or say the exact name.
We're intelligent, we know you're in the room,
you say turn the lights on,
we figure it's the lights in those room.
So very contextual based.
But also part of that
is then making sure that it's safe and secure.
So the data itself belongs to the consumer.
We're not storing any personal information in the cloud.
We're not monetizing the information that's in the cloud.
That's very important to us is to make sure
that we're providing a great customer experience
with that voice solution.
So that's the first way.
Second way is we have on our touch panels.
So touch panels is one of the things
that we provide to the homeowners.
Touch panels also have facial recognition
and what we're able to do is personalization.
So one of the age old problems,
at least in this what I'll call
the luxury or premium smart home solution space
is that you get one size fits all in a lot of homes.
So the user interface is the same
for no matter who in the home needs to interact with it.
And sometimes that's okay,
but in a lot of cases it's not,
because, yeah, it means extra key clicks,
or I have to go through a different menu,
or it doesn't even make any sense to me at all.
And what we're able to do is with facial recognition,
make it very personalized.
So as a consumer walks up,
if one person in the home walks up, it recognizes them,
they get their user experience.
So if I want buttons that are just for my playlist
or from the lighting or whatever is I'm controlling,
I see those.
Next person walks up can be 10 seconds later
they get a completely
or can get a completely different user interface
that's really personalized for that consumer.
And so that way we're having a personalized experience
for all the people that live in the home,
not just one who usually
in the past has been the one that sets it
and everybody else just has to live with it.
<v ->Yeah, absolutely.</v>
Let's talk about the facial recognition point
'cause this gets in a little bit to consumer acceptance
of some of the really advanced technologies
that are being built.
And AI specifically, you know,
there's this push pull of the benefits, you know,
that we all see of developing and pulling in AI
to drive that next feature set.
But are we getting ahead of the consumer
and where's consumer comfort?
Is there anything you could share
on the facial recognition part that you talked about?
I mean, you're definitely solving some friction points
and some pain points and getting to that personalization.
What do you think consumer openness is?
<v ->So it varies and we're still on that,</v>
I would say on that adoption curve that's there right now.
What we see is that people will put touch panels
in rooms in their home
and there's some rooms where they're not gonna be
activated at all.
And that's one of the options we give the consumer.
They can turn on or off that facial recognition.
So we're seeing in open spaces
that they're more readily acceptable to have that in place
where you don't want at your bedroom,
because and bathrooms, I just I don't trust it, right?
I don't wanna make sure that there's not a camera
that somewhere can be found on the web
or found in the cloud somewhere.
And so we're seeing that acceptance though
is actually increasing though.
And so people are starting to see the benefit.
It's much akin to if we take mobile phones, right?
Mobile phones, we opened up,
many of us have opened up huge gaps in our own privacy
by having mobile devices in our pockets right now.
We've all accepted that the benefit that it gives us
is higher than the potential deficit
of having that information potentially out there.
And so we make those trade-offs.
And I think consumers are starting to get to that point.
We're not quite there to the tipping point I would say yet,
but we're in that curve.
<v ->Yeah, and Amalia, I'd love to go to you here too,</v>
because you're working directly with older consumers
who tend to be some of the least accepting
of new technology broadly,
though we very much believe that seniors do use technology
and they tell us all the time that they do,
but tend to be later accepters, right?
With high concerns about things like AI
and here you have a company that's leaning into it.
Can you tell us a little bit about
what you've learned about that relationship
and how you,
you know, foster that consumer acceptance?
<v ->Sure.</v>
So to your point,
older adults definitely use technology,
but it needs to be built with them in mind.
I mean, they have different needs,
they have different knowledge gaps,
and when you build something
that's really simple and easy to use, they use it.
I mean, and I think when we market directly to older adults,
because we have different audiences,
we don't lean necessarily into the AI, into the innovation,
but we lean into what they have to gain living with ElliQ.
So we talk about all the different things
that they can do with her.
We talk about the weekly bingo nights,
which allow them to interact with other older adults
across the country and play live bingo.
We talk about all the health and wellness features
and the ability to really connect with family members
that aren't necessarily near them.
And sometimes they have trouble
using FaceTime or using Zoom.
And with ElliQ it's just so much easier.
All they need to do is give her a voice command.
Tell her, ElliQ, let's call Amalia,
and then she just does that for them.
So we see 56% of the users actually saying
they feel more connected to the outside world
ever since they've been living with ElliQ.
So I think,
first of all, when they see other older adults like them
in our marketing material, in our ads,
it does sort of foster a sense of security.
And we just make it very relatable
and very easy to understand the benefit
without talking about the technology.
For sure, there are issues and concerns about privacy,
but we're super transparent.
We always reassure them
that we don't use any personalized data to train our models.
We completely anonymize the data.
Everything that we use on premise
to sort of personalize the experience stays on premise.
It doesn't train our models.
So I think we try to be very transparent.
We have an AI code of ethics that we share
with all of our users, all of our partners,
and hopefully that does ease a lot of the concerns.
<v ->Yeah, okay.</v>
So I'd love to actually talk more about
the challenges of AI,
maybe even from a product development standpoint.
There's just the costs,
you know, to start with
when you decide that you want to,
you know, pull in some of these features
and especially as we get to generative AI
and the compute power it takes,
there's big competitive shifts in the market,
cybersecurity vulnerabilities,
intellectual property risks associated with AI,
uncertain regulatory environment for sure.
Arsham and then Casey,
I'd love to go to you if you could talk a little bit about
what are some of the biggest challenges
as you're developing your new framework
you were talking about, right,
in AI for the business?
<v ->So how you look at the financial side</v>
really has to do with the stage of the company.
There are companies that are quite okay
playing the loss leader game.
All they need are the numbers
and you can buy up the market
and then deliver the value at a later point.
Unfortunately, not every company has that benefit.
So we have to measure
the value of the problem that we're solving versus the cost
on an ongoing basis.
So we deliberately pick which AI models
do we move to the cloud
and do we incur the recurring cost
because there's a recurring value being generated.
And which do we need to actually start
innovating on the hardware side
so that we can slowly shift
smaller inference engines to the edge
that will have access to a lot more data by the way.
The amount of data that you can process
on the edge in real time
doesn't even come close to what you can shift to the cloud.
So the reliability and the access to the data
on the edge is a lot more,
obviously your models are much simpler.
So as long as you can carve out
what problems do you solve on the edge,
what problems do you solve on the server-side,
then you can balance out your front up cost on a product,
and then the recurring cost versus the value
that's gonna be generated on the other side.
So for us, it has to do with true value generation,
not simply writing the buzzword.
Believe it or not,
actually using the term AI
doesn't help your product sell better with the consumers.
It does help your stock sell better with the analysts,
but the consumer actually gets turned off.
<v Jennifer>Yeah.</v>
For UEI, when you think about the challenges
in AI development for instance today,
is cost the number one challenge or is there something else?
Keeps you up at night?
<v ->So our scope is typically residential environments,</v>
either residential or light commercial,
we do believe that users' attention
will derive who and which brands and which ecosystems
will have access to the largest amount of data
and they will have a better opportunity
to build a far better model
than we ever could for a generalized home automation.
So we focus on building out experts
in a multi-assistant environment,
experts that can achieve specific tasks so well
that even a generalized assistant in the home
will still rely on them
for completing a specific task,
from onboarding to predictive maintenance
to ongoing troubleshooting to personalization and targeting
in a private fashion, dot, dot, dot.
So we focus on very specific use cases.
We try to be the best at those,
imagining how we need to either function
as an independent product in the home
or connect to the rest of the ecosystem.
So useful as a standalone product
and far better in an ecosystem
that works with other assistants.
<v ->Okay.</v>
Josh, what are the challenges that are you're up against
in all the development that you're doing with AI right now?
<v ->Yeah.</v>
Well, there's.
<v ->Casey.</v>
<v ->Yeah, Casey, Josh,</v>
I respond to both.
<v ->I'm sorry.</v>
<v ->Yeah, it's fine.</v>
<v ->Casey at Josh.</v>
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->Thank you.</v>
<v ->You can call me Josh.</v>
So yeah, the cost associated with AI,
it's really interesting
because we pay our cellphone bill, we pay our cable bill,
we pay these monthly recurring fees for our services.
However, the smart home hasn't really done
a great job of implementing that yet.
And we have at Josh,
we've built a successful business model
with a hardware sale, a software sale,
and we offer monthly, annual, five-year and lifetime plans.
And we've modeled out what that profitability is,
what makes sense for us as a business
given our users and all that good stuff.
But it is important to note for a consumer,
and just to kind of take a step back as well
of you look at big tech out there,
these are really affordable microphones
or other devices on a shelf that can,
you know, listen to you and,
you know, execute commands in your home.
However, you know,
why is this device 50 bucks or 25 bucks?
And it's because, you know,
they're making money in another way,
not necessarily, you know,
by charging you for the experience.
So for us,
we are very conscious
of all the different services that we use,
whether it's the speech-to-text process,
the speech recognition platforms,
the LLMs and just various services that we use
to facilitate the AI that Josh offers all of our clients.
And by modeling that out,
it's a fun math equation essentially to figure out,
as we reach economies of scale, how these costs decrease.
But it's a non-zero cost.
I think that's an important thing for consumers to realize
is that this experience is not just a la carte
or it's not a free one that comes with this hardware.
In addition to that,
just, you know,
I'd say that that pretty much covers it
as far as the software cost.
<v ->Yeah, it's kind of the story of the smart home</v>
of trying to figure out
what consumers will pay for an ongoing basis
to cover the connectivity costs,
and now really it's the intelligence costs,
you know, as well.
Some rumors that there's maybe some subscription
coming from some of the big, you know, giants.
And if so perhaps training consumers
to think a little bit differently
about what that premium tier
that you pay for looks like, you know.
It could be interesting on the competitive landscape too.
Which Paulus I'd love to kind of get your thoughts on of
how AI and generative AI in particular
kind of redefine the competitive landscape
and where smaller players or open players,
you know, how you kind of compete in that environment?
<v ->Well I think it has completely changed it, right?</v>
Where we, five years ago it was like,
how can we ever compete
with Google and Amazon on their AI stuff
because we can only access it
through the voice assistants that they sell us
and now we can just pick up an API and we're almost,
we're better than the voice assistants of five years ago.
Now because of that,
it also is more interesting and important
to build on top of it
because everybody has access to the same LLMs, right?
We have the same AI,
so how do you differentiate?
And so I think that the way we're competing has to change
where everybody will be able to answer questions about
the world or your recipes or these things
because, well, an LLM can just do that
if you pay for the biggest models.
And so it will be really important
what is the user experience that we can build on top of it?
How can you make sure that it is tuned to the user?
How can you use their local habits
and integrate it into how they use the platform?
And I think that's gonna be way more important.
But until now it was more about like,
how do we even get voice in a house,
or like, it was very hard to compete.
And so yeah, we're just making,
we're gonna compete at a different level.
<v ->Okay, so we only have about five minutes left.</v>
There's one question we're getting asked actually
quite a bit at this kind of stage of the game,
which is it's a little bit of a wild west
when it comes to the regulatory landscape for AI right now,
but expectations, you know,
that there could be more coming down the pipe.
And I'm really interested to understand how you,
you know, what you really have your eye on
and how you're thinking about potential regulations,
is it are you looking more at regulations
around data privacy and security
or intellectual property concerns
or bias and discrimination?
There are all sorts of kind of angles of AI development
that's happening right now
that are kind of raising the attention of regulators.
So maybe Paul and then Arsham,
if you have anything that you can comment about
how you operate in this uncertain regulatory environment
and what you're really preparing for.
<v ->Yeah, so there's, as you mentioned,</v>
it's kind of the wild west right now,
at least in certain parts of the world.
North America for sure.
You go to Europe, Europeans in the audience.
So GDPR has been in place for some time.
I think it's a good model.
And I think it's one of the things we're looking at to say
what would the world look like if it was GDPR.
And GDPR I think takes a very conservative view
of making sure that we're protecting users' data.
And that also extends into how are models being trained.
What sources are using to train those models?
There's been a lot of that come up recently
where a lot of these models are being trained
by just pulling images and other things off the internet,
which could and most likely
are violating privacy laws already.
And so we wanna make sure we're not doing that.
We also making sure that the user's privacy is secure.
But a big part of that is that the consumer owns that data.
And a big part of GDPR and a big part of what we're seeing
and what we'll I think
we're going to continue to see in North America
is that I as a consumer have the right to tell you
the person storing that data
that I don't want you to store it.
First of all,
I wanna understand that you have to be explicit
on how you're using that data,
what you're using it for, and how you plan to use it,
that I am aware of before I then volunteer
that information to you.
And then secondly, I have the ability to not only take it,
but I can also transport it.
It has to be provided in a way
that it can bring down in code
that I could transport that same data
to somebody else's model.
And I think it's a good way to be thinking about
what's happening right now.
We are seeing some states.
Illinois has probably got
the biggest facial recognition laws
that are on the books today.
There's personal damages that you can sue for
if your images are used in the wrong ways.
California, Texas, Washington
all have some laws little less stringent than Illinois.
But we continue to watch the landscape.
I'm confident that we will see certainly
in the next few years something happen
in the United States and North America as a whole,
that kind of tightens that up a little bit.
And I think it's necessary
because I think that consumers are expecting
to have some control over this experience
and they don't want it to be the wild west.
<v Jennifer>Yeah, fantastic.</v>
Arsham, did you wanna add there?
<v ->On the privacy side, GDPR is a great example.</v>
When we try to go after personalization, for example,
we had to really lean on the edge
to deliver majority of the personalization experiences
with minimal dependency on the backend services,
which are only temporal
and they just disappear as soon as you use the service,
this is how we can ship everywhere.
But when I look at AI specifically,
a lot of the talk around regulation
is targeting last year's problem,
not really what we're designing today.
They are talking about some of the applications.
The most interesting that we would like to see is
when you think about an AI-enabled product
that goes out of service
and you don't update and maintain anymore,
it's not similar to a utility,
a product that had a fixed function,
it will continue doing what it used to.
An AI product that goes without service can be dangerous.
So that is one of the biggest issues
that are looking forward to seeing an outcome
which will actually materially change
how we serve our connected products in the long run.
<v ->Okay.</v>
All right, we have just a few minutes left,
so I'd love to ask Amalia, Casey and Paulus,
if you guys had advice for those in the crowd
that are working on their own solutions,
trying to keep up with the pace of innovation,
which doesn't ever slow down,
but somehow seems even more accelerated than normal,
you know, what advice do you have
as they consider how AI can maybe transform
their products, their businesses,
and they think about, you know, what's next for them?
<v ->So what we always say is that</v>
in order to really create an impact in a person's lives
and really create a long-lasting relationship,
and obviously retention based on that as well,
it's important for the AI to be proactive.
If you think about the relationships in our lives,
they're not one way, they're not prompt-based.
We don't just wait for a friend to call us
and ask how we are, do we wanna meet,
we wouldn't be very good friends doing that.
So if we wanna create AIs
that don't replace human relationships,
but create sort of a new category of relationships,
maybe sort of like a pet,
we need to have an AI that's able to interact
and initiate interactions and be proactive about it
and really anticipate what the user needs.
<v Jennifer>Okay, great.</v>
Casey?
<v ->Just to add on top of that,</v>
or maybe put a different way,
is what problem is this AI solving in a unique or,
you know, special way?
Because at Josh, our founders,
the vision was there's not an AI,
and this is before any other voice assistant
was out as well,
but our founding mission was,
there's no smart home assistant
with the contextual awareness, the natural language,
the conversational understanding of
what does it's too dark in here mean or I'm cold,
and being able to adjust your lights, your thermostat.
And since then we've built a lot more on top of that
in terms of the device functionality integrations,
the intelligence assistance as well.
But from a competition standpoint,
AI is here, it's definitely blown up and now it's,
you know, the hot buzzword,
and everybody's trying to figure out how to use it.
But how do you use it in a impactful way
that creates value for your business where,
you know, I think we also just in talking about,
you know, AI being a loss leader for some larger companies.
If you're a smaller company,
you can't really afford for it to be a loss leader
or else you're not gonna be around too long.
So how are you creating this experience
that is creating retention,
creating, you know, memorable experiences
or you know, utility,
that people want to continue to pay for.
<v Jennifer>Okay, great, and Paulus last word?</v>
<v ->Yeah, I think that if you're building AI</v>
then make sure that LLMs are not the only AI.
I mean you're talking about cost
and actually LLMs are the most expensive AI you can use.
You can already achieve so much
just by doing old school machine learning,
statistical analysis, looking at the data,
and there's so much stuff
you can actually run locally as well,
that you don't need a big GPU for it to run models.
And so don't think that
generative AI is the only AI tool in your toolbox.
There is many, many tools.
<v ->Okay, fantastic.</v>
Well please join me in thanking our kickoff panel today,
sharing their insights.