I am Elizabeth Parks, the President and CMO</v>
of Parks Associates.
We're excited to have this conversation also
to host our 19th Annual Connection Summit.
We invite you all to join us at our networking reception
this evening if you're interested
and want to send a enormous shout out
to our sponsors of this event.
So thank you to these companies for sharing their support
for this sessions today and our evening reception.
We're gonna be talking about profitability
in the connected home.
This is a hot topic, right?
How to make money and stay in business.
And we've got an amazing lineup of speakers
who are gonna share some of their experiences
that they've had in managing the bottom line,
as well as maintaining innovation
and shifting business models.
So again, I welcome you, I am the President
and CMO of Parks Associates.
We're celebrating our 39th year in business this year,
and so thank you if you are part of our events or research,
we very much appreciate your support.
And I wanna start off by just setting the stage for you all
before we go into questions.
There are so many different players
that are in the connected home space,
and the smart home, of course,
is part of the connected home.
Lots and lots of companies who are vying
for the consumer's attention, for their money,
and ultimately for the subscription service
that the consumer could have in their home depending
on what they're buying.
Making money in this market is interesting
and requires a lot of thinking,
requires a lot of investments, costs, and strategies.
It is also completely dependent on a lot
of partnerships and understanding
how these ecosystems can work together
in a converging market.
And that really is what Parks Associates is about,
understanding where the opportunity lies
between intersecting ecosystems
that are converging ultimately in the name
of the experience for the consumer.
So that's what we'll be talking about today
and we encourage you all to read some
of the research that we've produced.
There is a lot of free data on our website
in understanding the different business models
and how to go to market with new products.
I would like to start off with brief intros.
We have really, a great lineup of speakers
to address this topic coming from different areas
of the consumer market.
And so we're gonna start off with 30 second introductions
and then go into Q&amp;A.
And so we'll start here.
Travis, if you would introduce yourself.
<v ->All right, yeah, I'm Travis Hockersmith, I work for Vizio.</v>
I oversee the team
that works on monetization of our platform.
So we've transformed our business model
over the past five years or so
from a company that makes money when we sell TVs
to a company that makes money when you use your TV.
And that's what my team's really been focused on
and we've built a fairly large recurring revenue business
over the past five years.
<v Elizabeth>Great, thank you for being here.</v>
Melissa, welcome back.
<v ->Thank you Elizabeth, good morning everybody.</v>
My name is Melissa Andresko.
I am the chief brand ambassador at Lutron Electronics.
For those of you not familiar with Lutron,
we are the company that brought dimmers
to the world, light dimmers,
and have today involved into a very robust smart home
and smart building business.
And I'm very happy to be here
and thank you for spending your morning with us.
<v ->Hi everyone, my name is Agnes Lorenz.</v>
I do brand and partner support at Zooz.
We are a Z-Wave manufacturer.
We produce quality smart home devices,
anything from dimmers, switches, also relays and sensors.
We're focused on providing a comprehensive ecosystem
for everybody to use using the latest technology.
We have over 35 devices on the market today,
most of them using the latest Z-Wave long range technology.
<v ->]Elizabeth] Great, thanks for being here, Jake, welcome.</v>
<v Jake>Thanks Elizabeth, welcome as well.</v>
Thank you for having me.
For the audience, my name is Jake Alamat.
I manage the home and life business for Silicon Labs.
For those of you unfamiliar with Silicon Labs,
our entire business is
around building semiconductor solutions for IOT Edge nodes.
So we've been in the IOT almost forever,
since it's kind of been around.
And what we focus on is building optimized,
secure solutions and services to enable device makers
and ecosystems to add value and bring unique solutions
and use cases to the market.
So thank you for having me,
appreciate being a part of this panel.
<v Elizabeth>Great, Laura, welcome.</v>
<v ->Hi everybody, thanks for having me today.</v>
I'm Laura Mitchell.
I'm the CEO of GrandCare Systems.
We are a software company that utilizes a variety
of hardware solutions, including like a touchscreen
and several sensors to help individuals primarily
with disabilities or older adults
remain independent at home.
So establishing remote supports
and things like that to utilize touchscreen based
and sensor-based technologies, nice to be here.
<v ->Great, thank you for joining us.</v>
Okay, so we have a lot of different perspectives.
I wanna start and just talk
about the hardware model really changing.
And so Travis, we're gonna start here.
Can you give us an idea
of how Vizio has navigated this shift that we've seen
in the past, I don't know, 18 to 30 months
with moving from being a television company
to being so much more?
<v ->Yeah, it really starts</v>
with transforming the company into more
of a software company.
Historically, we made great TVs at a great price
and we were very hardware focused.
People would buy a TV, plug in their cable box,
whatever the case may be.
As the world moved to streaming services,
it provided a huge opportunity to be the operating system
that people use when they turn on their TV to go
to all the content you expect, all the apps that you expect.
And they're really interesting business models
in running that part of the business.
We make money from advertising,
we make money from subscriptions.
We found all sorts of ways
to monetize when you turn the TV on.
And that's been the real transformation.
It's been a completely different company now
than it was in the past, just in terms of the type
of people we employ, the number of engineers that work
for us, the number of people that work,
talking with advertising clients and selling
to advertising clients, the number of people
who work with the major apps in the ecosystem.
So it's really been a whole company transformation from,
I guess the simplest way to put it's from a hardware company
to an integrated company
that is predominantly software driven.
<v Elizabeth>And that's this hardware as a service model</v>
that we've been talking about for years now at parks.
And I know that Jake at Silicon Labs is really working
to help many hardware companies realize
that they can become so much more.
We are in a world of transformation
and so this hardware is now dependent upon so much more
and there is revenue that is getting attached to that.
So Jay, can you explain a little bit
about how this is working
when you all are approaching different companies as they try
to transform themselves as Vizio is currently doing?
<v ->Yeah, at Silicon Labs, as you said,</v>
Elizabeth, we support tens of thousands
of customers all building unique devices.
And we see many strong use cases today
and many strong use cases coming in the future
that are really driving new electronics companies
to either shift their model like Travis is talking about,
or build new features and use cases.
And really the folks that we see
that are successful in this, they're folks
that they focus on how do I add a unique value
to the consumer that isn't just viewed as a nice to have,
but it becomes viewed as a must have, right?
So talking about aging in place, right,
where people want that, that freedom to be able
to stay in their home and not go
to a different community or anything like that.
Having the tools to be able to go control that
and be able to stay in a place that you want to be
or extending even into medical monitoring
like you see with diabetes management today.
So the folks that we see
that are really successful here are looking
at how do I add value
with my own product and across the ecosystem
that is gonna align to consumer's needs?
The folks that we see that have challenges
in this are the folks that really try
to go it on their own for everything
because they build in a lot
of complexity in their products.
It saps resources away from them being able
to focus on what value can I provide
and not only what value can I provide,
but how do I communicate that to a non-technical audience?
So it's pretty exciting the landscape that's out there
and how it's evolving
and I think there's a lot of opportunities for folks
to really build good, strong businesses off of it,
but they need to be thinking in a way
of how do I add value on an ongoing basis?
What's that service?
What's that thing that becomes a must have to drive?
<v Elizabeth>And is there a reality</v>
that a subscription service is necessary in today's world
with hardware or that it's important
in terms of long-term future of products?
<v ->I don't think that it has to be there.</v>
I think it depends on what you're trying to go do.
A lot of companies today,
they'll have tiered offerings where they'll have a doorbell
and a lock or a light
that you can all put together in your home
and make that work.
And if you're fine managing that yourself,
you don't need any,
a subscription actually becomes counterproductive
at that point because then what am I paying for?
Really what they care
about in that case is do I trust the brand, right?
Is this gonna be reliable?
Is this gonna be appliance that I can keep for a long time?
But there's things that you can go do above
and beyond that where it could become a monitoring service
either for security, either for energy efficiency
where somebody can say, "Hey look,
I'll save you 50% on your bill
and here's the ROI you get for giving me that money."
But it has to be tied to a tangible use case.
And as you can see,
it doesn't always have to be a subscription.
The focus has to be on, in my opinion
and in our opinion is how am I adding unique value
and how am I putting all my time, energy, and effort there?
<v ->Okay, great, and how are we gonna get consumers</v>
to get the idea of AI
and artificial intelligence in their home products?
And so Agnes, I'll come to you on this one.
When talking about the different products
that you all have in the home
and the level of AI that is being injected,
what is the consumer response to this
and why does the AI become so important
to driving the profitability and the future
of those different products when we look
at the market today?
<v ->Yeah, I think you have to follow the money, right?</v>
All the money in tech is going to AI development right now
and there's a huge opportunity in the smart home.
I think that what we're seeing right now
with companies like Josh AI, what it's very easy to interact
with, smart home is just a preview.
It's hopefully going to happen.
One of the biggest barriers that we've seen
with consumers is that nobody has time
to create if then scenarios
or rules to create automations.
Some of that falls on the backs of installers right now
and that really drives that industry.
But in the future, what we're going
to see is there will be large action models
for smart homes similar to self-driving for cars today.
We're going to see the homes
suggesting what needs to be done.
Wouldn't it be nice to unpack a sensor, set it up,
do a shadow valve, set it up,
and then the automation is set up for you, right?
You don't have to do anything.
So that's the future, in terms of platform development,
whoever's here doing software,
that's absolutely where you should be focusing on,
how to bypass that rural creation process
and deliver really smart suggestions
and solutions for your customers.
If you're a hardware developer like us for example,
what we need to start looking at is something
that I think Silicon Labs is seen already.
I know that you guys were helping a customer
develop a smoke sensor that would tell the difference
between an incense smoke and actual fire smoke, right?
So compute on the edge where sensors
and controls are getting smarter
with machine learning algorithms
that just have the type of power
to bring us to the next level
and really deliver that experience
because at the end of the day, just like as Jake mentioned,
what you make money on is user experience.
<v ->Yeah, and I think a lot of what you're talking</v>
about is this new term we're we're seeing Agentic AI,
this autonomous coordination that's going on
with all of the intelligence.
And so that is a new term
that parks has been seeing, Google using it quite a bit.
The idea that the coordination is all built in and happening
because of the intelligence coming
from the different devices or sensors,
whatever data is there.
So it's very interesting thinking about it that way.
Melissa would love to hear from you on some of Lutron's view
and how you all are building the experience
for consumers at home.
<v ->Yeah, so I think today a lot</v>
of consumers I think are starting
with one smart home product
that is solving a problem for them.
I don't know that there's this broad group of consumers
who have their whole smart home sort
of laid out ahead of time.
I think there's a lot of tech enthusiasts
who are probably operating that way,
but I think the average consumer is starting
with a singular product.
And that might be a voice assistant,
it might be a smart doorbell or a camera,
something that is gonna solve a very distinct problem
in their household or enhance their lifestyle, excuse me.
And then I think that the whole works
with aspect is sort of the bonus.
And I think that again, they're starting
with one product.
They're understanding the integration possibilities
with whether it's lights or shades
or adding additional devices, whether it's audio.
So it's very interesting
because we're seeing a lot of attachment sales very quickly
and I think Amazon in particular does a very good job.
Once you purchase one smart home product,
it starts suggesting other things that work.
So it's exciting to sort of see how this is evolving.
But yeah, we find especially
with our Caseta smart lighting system,
people are starting there and then adding on.
So it's been exciting to see that evolution.
<v Elizabeth>Yeah, I think the smart home</v>
really ends up being about the experience.
A lot of people don't understand what they might not have
until they have it.
<v ->Exactly.</v>
<v ->Same thing</v>
with a smart television,
you don't know what you don't know until you get one
and then you're wowed by it.
And so a lot of these things are moving to the experience
and then that integration.
There's also a really important play though when we think
about healthcare and accessibility
and just making technology for everybody
and making it very useful.
And so Laura, I would love for you
to share a little bit more about some of the things
that you all are doing with the reality
of devices moving into services
and how they're really helping consumers.
<v ->Yeah, sure, so we serve primarily individuals living</v>
with intellectual and developmental disabilities
as well as older adults.
And our technology is designed
to help create the least restrictive environment possible
so that that individual can attain a certain amount
of independence.
And that can be a different story depending on
where they're, we try to meet them where they're at.
And our technology is just a vehicle to provide that.
And it's really not about the technology,
it's about amplifying existing caregivers to help them
to not only provide remote supports
and care for individuals either in a hybrid model,
I mean, GrandCare is not going to make your bed
or help you shower,
but what GrandCare does do is it can walk you
through your day, it can help break down complicated tasks.
It can say, here's a video on how to shave, here's a video
of you getting ready for work,
here are how to do those things.
And so providing independence one step further to allow
that individual to achieve independence and success.
Meanwhile, remote caregivers
who may have previously been man on man model, right?
And we don't have enough caregivers
and as we limit immigration,
the problem's going to get worse.
So these individuals don't have enough caregivers
and they wanna be independent.
Most people aren't saying,
"I'd really love somebody to be in my home 24/7."
So they want to have as much independence as possible
and using technology, using Zooz, using Lutron, using all
of these technologies together, interoperable of course,
to allow that individual to live their best life.
And of course in the safest way possible. Melissa,
<v Elizabeth>Melissa, did you wanna add anything?</v>
I know you're part of the health tech care foundationally.
<v ->Yeah, so the Consumer Technology Association</v>
has their foundation
and the foundation is based on really helping those
with disabilities and seniors use technology for good,
help them restore those found freedoms
that they may have lost.
And it's been fascinating to me
to hear personal stories from our customers.
Lutron makes motorized window shades, for example,
and we have a device
that you could actually put
on your wheelchair or your scooter.
And I had the good fortune of meeting the family
who both the husband and wife were wheelchair bound
and they said, "We haven't opened our window shades in eight
and a half years because it's difficult for us
to stand up and twist the mini blinds open
and now we have these motorized shades
and we can have sunlight come in."
And just hearing powerful stories like that,
that we all take for granted
and knowing that this concept of technology
for good is helping people to your point,
stay in their homes longer, give them these freedoms.
It's just such a powerful thing to watch.
And I think that's gonna be a really important thing
for 2025 and I'll address that.
I know that's our last question,
but we can talk more about that,
but yeah, I think this whole concept
of just helping people age in place
more efficiently and effectively is just fascinating.
<v ->Well, yeah, and healthcare really is for everybody</v>
and not just the older people.
Everybody can use technology
to understand what's going on with their health
and then leverage other devices
to understand what's going on in their environment.
And that really is what a lot
of the connected home, the IOT space is about.
What is going on in the environment, what are the tools
that I can use to access different content, to access apps.
We know the television is still the centerpiece of the home
and we see the smart home being connected to the TV
and in fact, this is the vision
that Tricia Parks our founder had back
in the eighties, right?
The whole home experience bringing together controls,
security, automation with the largest screen
and intertwining those in the name of the experience.
So, there really is a lot that's grown up
and still we're, might say
that we're in the early stages of this really exploding.
So part of the challenge though in profitability is
that ability to scale.
And so I wanna see if we can just go down very quickly here
and then we'll move to the next topic
of what's your best advice
that you'd give a company who's looking
to scale their hardware or their software services?
<v ->I think fundamentally, I mean you've gotta have a lot</v>
of devices out there, obviously in order to scale any
of these business models,
but you've gotta make it really easy to use,
especially in connected TV,
there's a lot of options for consumers.
If you don't like how your TV works,
you can buy a $20 dongle and plug it in
and it's a completely different experience.
So you have to deliver an experience that consumers trust
and love and connect with over time.
In the absence of that, there's really no way to scale.
<v ->And I think it's also too just about, just to reinforce</v>
what you're saying, just about providing that value,
what is that long-term commitment to the product
and making sure that when you're buying it,
you don't feel like you're gonna have
to replace it every 18 months,
that this company's gonna support your journey
with this product in your home.
So I think it's really about what is that value proposition
to the consumer so that they are committed
to staying with it long term?
<v ->I would add that if you are a small company scaling,</v>
which is essentially what we've been for the past 10 years,
it's important to pay attention
to your channels, who you're trying to reach.
If you're trying to reach consumers, we see more
of them going direct to manufacture
and you're competing with companies that are selling direct.
So Amazon comes to mind,
but then you have to keep in mind that Amazon
is kind of high fee environment right now.
So it's important to build your channels if you're going
to go after the consumer directly.
Think of how you can do that so
that you can control the pricing so that you can control
that after purchase experience.
And then if you're going after professionals,
what we're learning we really need
to start developing relationships
in the distribution channel.
So it's going to be different depending on your strategy,
but that is a key factor of your success,
is how are you going to distribute the product?
So that part of the experience today,
most people buy online,
so that e-commerce factor is very important.
So you need to make sure that you partner with people
or you provide an experience of what people expect today,
which is fast shipment
of exactly what they're trying to buy.
<v ->Full alignment with what the panelists said here.</v>
I mean, the only other thing I'd add on top of it is
leverage partners, leverage ecosystems,
don't reinvent the wheel.
There are plenty of that are out there
that can get you onto the cloud,
can get you into every ecosystem, can help you manufacture,
can help you build your devices, do that as much
as you can so that way you're not redoing
any of the me too stuff.
You're thinking about how do I add unique value?
How do I make it easy?
How do I build out my channel network,
how do I offer that unique thing?
And there's tons of resources out there in the market
to enable y'all to go do that,
so that would be my biggest advice.
<v ->Yes to everything that has already been said.</v>
I would only add as a software company,
interoperability is king because your clients
and consumers and caregivers don't wanna log
into 17 different things in order to set up rules here
and to be notified there.
So really stopping with the proprietary thing
and trying to work with OpenAPI's ability
to work with other people.
I mean, and that's really the winner in this space
from a software standpoint, is going to be somebody
with a dashboard that everybody can access.
Everybody can easily, kind of what Qualcomm was doing
with the two 2net platform maybe like 10 years ago,
but I would say not hardware based, software based
and allowing everyone to work together.
<v ->Great comments on interoperability.</v>
And we do have a session later today
that we'll be addressing that.
Let's talk though about customer engagement and stickiness
and keeping that consumer buying
within the same product ecosystem or buying more.
Travis, what are some of the ways
that you all are measuring engagement
and feeling good about what's happening with your customers?
<v ->Yeah, the fundamental metric that we look at</v>
for our business now, we call ARPU average revenue per user.
So we know on average how much every TV
that's plugged into a wall out there is returning
in terms of revenue.
And that's kind of our metric
that we're constantly monitoring,
but the things that you have to do
to drive that metric all revolve around delivering services
that people want to use over and over and over again.
The majority of our revenue on our platform comes
in the form of advertising revenue.
So it's not necessarily subscription revenue
where someone's paying $20 a month or whatever
and they forget that they're paying it
and you keep billing their credit card.
Like we actually have to have people watching the right kind
of content on our platform day in
and day out in order to move that metric.
So we're obsessed
with the consumer experience on our platform
because it's what drives the business.
<v ->I love that, obsessed with the consumer experience.</v>
That's perfect, any other comments that anybody wants
to make on being able to keep a customer sticky?
Does that mean you're sending them notifications
all the time to remind them to use your service?
Or Melissa, what does that look like at Lutron as far
as customer engagement goes?
<v ->Yeah, so we are also obsessed with customer engagement.</v>
I love that you said that.
Yeah, the customer is the center of our universe.
And so anytime we're developing products,
we're looking back at the feedback
and we're constantly thinking about, okay,
what is the lifecycle of this product?
Lutron's founder Joel Spira, one of the things he was
so passionate about was making sure
that our products were not only functional,
but also beautiful.
And he designed them from the outside in
and his big thing was always about, we wanna make sure
that our products can be used by a 5-year-old,
by a 50-year-old, by a 90-year-old.
And so sometimes our product development cycle
took a little bit longer
because he wanted
to make sure like the tactile feel was correct
and that if you have somebody in your home,
they kind of understand exactly
how the product is gonna work and how it's gonna work well.
So for us it's really about just making sure
that we are listening to our customers,
we're making sure we're pushing out updates appropriately,
and we do stay in touch with our customers via newsletters
and whether it's suggesting different ways to integrate
with our systems and just helping to really enhance
that lifestyle experience.
And again, it's all about solving problems.
So any way that we can help people make life just a little
bit easier through technology, it's a win-win for everybody.
<v ->Okay, great, Agnes,</v>
maybe you can comment a little bit on pricing strategies
and how you think different price points
can attract different types of customers and any suggestions
to the audience as they think
about how they're pricing their services and products.
<v ->That's always a struggle, right?</v>
Setting the right price
and especially if you're working with partners
or you're coming from market to market.
So what we've seen working with,
we also have an e-commerce stores,
we've worked with different brands trying to come
from Europe, for example.
They're very strong in Europe, they're coming to the US
and they set this higher price point
because according to them, once you set a lower price,
you can never lower it again.
Anybody that has lived in the US knows
that you can absolutely lower a price
and you can go very, very low, right?
Especially around the holidays, which is almost always,
so that's why I said it's key to be open, first of all
to have control over pricing as well so we can quickly pivot
and to be open to try different strategies.
What we're seeing a lot,
and especially in the e-commerce sector, is
that sometimes a customer will tolerate a higher price
as long as they don't have to pay for shipping, right?
They hate paying for shipping,
but they don't necessarily realize
that the shipping is not actually free.
It's built into the price.
So we've tried to be more transparent about that
and charge more for shipping and that did not work.
So you have to kind
of watch and learn how customers are reacting to pricing.
But definitely keep in mind that going market to market,
there's different cultures around pricing
and different cultures around commerce.
So if you're planning to scale, either coming from the US
to Europe or to Asia,
there's going to be different local factors that you have
to keep in mind.
And this is where partnering
with the right people comes into play, right?
So talk to people, ask questions,
see what other people are doing
and that's what's going to drive success for you, I think.
<v ->Okay, great comments.</v>
Let's switch and talk a little bit
about the cloud and the edge, right?
All these hardware products have a lot of data now
that's being collected behind the scenes, incredible amounts
of data, probably people don't even know what to do with
so much data, data everywhere.
And this idea of data moving into the cloud
or data staying on the edge of the hardware.
Jake, I wanna see if you can address this for us.
Where's the world going and why does the cloud matter
and what should companies be careful
with when they're thinking about the cloud versus the edge?
<v ->So thank you.</v>
Big picture, all this cloud to edge stuff means is
adding more decision making capability
and more functionality at the device level versus having
to do that processing in a centralized set
of cloud servers that are out there.
And that's really, really exciting,
not only for, we already talked a little bit about some
of the personalized experiences
and the new use cases that you can bring,
but it does address some of the things
that you brought up even in the question, right?
A lot of folks are worried about, "Hey,
I'm talking about something in my kitchen
and I get an ad on Facebook for that
because my phone overheard it," right?
People are worried about their own data, their own privacy,
doing more AI.
All AI does is it gives you the ability
to do more stuff without having to go to the cloud
that gives users not only new use cases
and more personalized experiences,
but it keeps the data in their own area.
It prevents them from the whole house shutting down
when your broadband goes out, right?
And then for this is all about profit
for the device makers.
People fail to realize and they do
after they start deploying it,
we've put AI into a lot of our edge node products
for the last couple years now.
So we're starting to see a lot
of these use cases go into production.
They're also seeing lower costs on their end, right?
Where yeah, they can get that data to go see
how things are being used so that way they can figure out
how to build better experiences and better products.
But they don't have to spend as much money on cloud storage,
they don't have to worry about latencies,
they don't have to bear a lot of that cost
and support that's required to go navigate those things.
So there's real cost benefits for companies
that actually implement it to their bottom line
for that kind of, not front end use case,
but kind of backend support area.
But there's real benefits in terms of privacy,
in terms of resiliency from networks going out,
in terms of personalized experiences and and and.
And we're just at the beginning of this,
it's gonna be really, really exciting
to see how it all plays out.
<v ->Great Comments, does anybody else wanna comment</v>
on cloud versus edge?
Anybody? Okay.
Let's talk a little bit more
about the service platform
and the idea that you end up having a platform with a spoke,
whether it be devices or content,
you have something that is an enabler
of connections of revenue, of new applications.
And so Travis,
can you explain a little bit more about the Vizio platform
and in the future beyond just the content side,
you mentioned all of the advertising dollars,
what else is coming next?
<v ->Yeah, fundamentally right now most</v>
of our revenue comes
from helping our viewers find content through advertising.
So Disney Plus is promoting content, whatever,
or things that look like TV ads within content,
a company trying to sell a product.
But we will continue to focus on those areas,
but we do see a huge opportunity with the TV being kind
of the center of the connected home,
the biggest screen in the house
and connecting the TV
with all the other devices around the house.
We haven't made a tremendous amount of progress there yet,
but it's definitely a focus area for us.
And I think it's a, people have this like connection
with their living room TV
and we really do believe that it can become a hub
for the smart home.
<v ->And we believe that too at Parks Associates.</v>
So we think you're on the right track there.
And I mean, if you're watching Roku, right?
Roku is a streaming media device
and they have a home security system at Walmart.
So the television as the main screen can do a lot
of different things, including on the health side
and the ability to communicate with people
through the television in an interactive way.
Laura, let's shift over to you a little bit
and see if you can share more about the platform view
and why this is so important in the business that you're in
of helping people manage their homes,
especially if they have certain disabilities
or inabilities to do various things.
<v ->Well I think the idea is utilizing technology</v>
to not only meet them where they're at,
but make it so that they don't have to do anything in order
to engage with it.
we had some competitors
that were just doing the connected home,
that were just doing monitoring and telehealth,
things like that.
And tho those are things we do as well,
but we thought it was so important
that we didn't just serve them a big plate of vegetables,
that there was something in it for them.
And so that speaking to the stickiness
that they would have keep coming to the TV, the touchscreen,
whatever it is, and not only would it help them
with their activities of daily living,
but there would also be engaging content on there for them.
Some of the individuals that we serve right now
for some reason or another may not have access
to smart devices.
And so in using technology,
you can provide a safer environment for them to engage
with maybe YouTube video on trains
or maybe they love "M*A*S*H"
or "Little House on the Prairie",
but they don't have access to a smart connected device
to engage with those things.
So I think there's using technology
and our system is a little different
because we have to not only serve the end user,
which is the individual that is being cared for,
but also the caregiver that is providing that care.
So the stickiness and everything comes in two points.
One is the make sure it's easy for the caregiver
to monitor and set up and do all those things,
but most importantly that the user is engaged
and they want to use the technology.
<v ->Okay, great comments, thank you for that.</v>
I wanna end, we just have a few minutes left.
I do wanna talk a little bit about interoperability.
We know Matter has promised a lot
and made a lot of progress,
but differentiation is still critical for companies
to stand out in the market.
And so Jake, I wanna see if you can comment on
what's different about today's standards
and then Melissa, we'll go to you next,
and then Agnes as well.
<v ->So for those of you that don't know,</v>
Matter is a technology that is set
to enable interoperability between IOT edge nodes
and interoperability between different app ecosystems.
So theoretically you buy one device, you use that device,
you can use any app you want, you can have that talk
to other devices so long as they're Matter compatible.
What's really exciting about this
and what's different now is the momentum
and the buy-in that this has from the industry
and it being proven out, like it takes a long time
to build out a wireless technology and a wireless ecosystem.
It's not perfect from day one,
but this has the backing of the biggest cloud companies.
It has the biggest backing
of a lot of the broadband operators in US and Europe
and it's starting to come into Asia and all that.
So that means it's going to come
and it's going to evolve
and a lot of people get bent outta shape of,
"Oh my God, well I'm not gonna have value
by having my own proprietary protocol
or having my own specialized ecosystem."
Well it's the wrong way to look at it in my opinion, right?
This thing offers a massive amount of benefits
of problems that you don't have to solve anymore in terms
of device security, in terms of attestation, in terms
of how do you get everything to work on.
So that frees the market
to do unique and creative things,
to focus on all the things we've been talking
about on this panel about why,
how do people become successful in this space?
So in my opinion, the folks that are gonna be successful
here are gonna be the ones
that take advantage of the benefits
that these things provide
and then build on top of it their own capabilities,
their own experience to really add value to consumers
and to help them build their system
from one or two devices they might buy at Walmart
to go add a full set of lights or a full set
of locks or cameras or switches.
<v ->Yep, okay, great comments there.</v>
Melissa, did you wanna add anything to that?
<v ->Yeah, sure, so Lutron is very supportive</v>
of the Matter movement and it makes a lot
of sense in helping people advance their smart home journey.
Today, we are actually on the Board
of the Connected Standards Alliance who's helping
to bring Matter to the masses.
We do not have any Matter compliant products today
because we actually do have a proprietary RF technology
that we call Clear Connect.
And we today have what is known
as the most connected smart lighting control system
on the market.
So for now, we don't have to use Matter at the moment,
but again, as I said earlier, we are customer obsessed
and if our customers are asking for it,
then that's something we're gonna address down the road.
But there's definitely room for both Matter
and proprietary in the market, I believe so.
<v ->Okay, Agnes, you have a quick comment?</v>
<v ->Yeah, I have so much to say about this.</v>
This is something that's close to my heart
because I come from the trenches of that, right?
And every single day we have to answer why this doesn't work
with that and we use Z-Wave, which is actually something
that not in theory, thank you for being transparent, Jake,
that theoretically this should happen
with Matter, in reality, Z-Wave has had QR scanning
and adding devices easily just based
on the technology, right?
So you can add a Z-Wave device to any Z-Wave hub
and it will work, not only that,
it has standardized command classes.
So that means that you can do much, much more today
with Z-Wave can do with Matter.
That's today obviously, but that's the protocol that we use
and we find that it's much easier for us as a manufacturer
to have that because we don't have to figure out
so many different things around just creating a device
that will say A, B and C, motion detection, I don't know,
temperature detection, anything like that.
It's already built into the protocol,
but still we need to do a lot to make sure that the devices
that we make display correctly on many different platforms.
So if I release a motion sensor today,
I release 20 or 30 products
because that motion sensor will display differently
on smart things, that motion sensor will display
differently on home assistant.
And that means I need to go and work
with every single platform on that experience.
So that's why there's a lot of work to do,
whether you're choosing Matter, Z-Wave, or any protocol,
the key for us is to focus on improving those
experiences and not expect people
to choose one platform and stick with it.
There's not gonna be a winner,
although home assistant is pretty much killing it.
There's going to be different platforms out there
and we need as manufacturers
and as companies in the industry need
to do the hard work of integration.
<v ->Okay, great comments there.</v>
And ultimately all
of this technology is creating more options for consumers.
The smart home, moving into the mass market.
I was a little upset to see a headline that called
the Smart Home gadgets again,
'cause I thought we had passed that stage,
but I just saw it last week.
We don't think we're talking about gadgets anymore.
We really believe we're talking about lifestyles,
we're talking about people's family.
We're talking about people's health, their safety,
their security, their lighting,
their entertainment preferences.
All of these things are built on the foundation
of the internet, connectivity, and the integration
and convergence among many, many ecosystems in the home,
markets that equal billions
and billions and billions of dollars.
So the smart home is not a gadget at all.
And I would like to thank our speakers
for their great comments today.
If you would please give them a round of applause.
Thank you all for being here.