<v ->Thank you all for coming.</v>
Thank you all for coming
to the Quantum Means Business segment at CES.
We are thrilled to be here,
thrilled to have so many familiar faces and friends
in the room as well.
This is a big kind of step
for the quantum industry,
to come to CES
and present where we are from an overarching perspective.
My name is George Thomas,
and it's my pleasure here today
to kind of give you a little lay of the land
and introduce us.
So there's three segments to the session today.
The first one is gonna be called Quantum is Here.
We are gonna be focusing on quantum computing.
But before we get started,
I just wanted to kind of give a lay of the land
with regard to what quantum is for those of you,
just to kind of level set,
so that we are all speaking from the same page.
My name is George Thomas, as I said,
I'm the president and CEO of Connected DMV,
and we organize the Quantum World Congress,
it's an annual kind of gathering
for the leadership in quantum from around the world.
So the industry itself and the market when we say,
"Quantum," and quantum essentially is quantum mechanics,
which is physics at the subatomic level,
that has now created entire industries
that are enabling us to use the science,
to create engineering and applications,
to drive substantial change within the world
that we live in.
The promise of quantum is, by all intents and purposes,
going to be as profound, if not more,
than when the internet came about.
For those of you that remember pre-1995 to 2005,
that was such a substantial change
in pretty much everything that we do and how we interact.
This is another one of those step changes that can happen
in our lifetimes with regard to what this could do.
So from a pure market perspective itself,
that physics at the subatomic level has kind of evolved
into multiple kind of domains of expertise,
the first one being quantum computing,
which everybody has heard of.
There's also other areas,
which I will kind of talk about in a little bit.
From an overall market perspective, the rough estimate,
and there's lots of variations, depending on what you count,
is about 173 billion, this is a report from McKinsey,
and you can see kind of like the breakout
of that by quantum sensing, communications, and others.
But the one, two numbers I would point out on the slide
to also pay attention to is the economic impact
just from quantum computing itself,
is between 1 and $2 trillion,
is the anticipation by 2040.
And if you look across from a talent perspective,
there's already, you know,
So it's not science in a lab, it's as much as it's here,
talent is being developed,
economic impact is being looked at.
So this is a fast-moving
and fast-evolving kind of market space as it were.
And one of the other factors on there
is that $40 billion that you see below it.
So publicly available information
from central and federal governments around the world
showcase that this is a global phenomenon.
There's a significant amount of investment happening,
led by China, with about 15 billion,
and the US with about four.
But everybody's participating.
And this is publicly available information
from central governments.
It's a lot more money going in
outside of these kind of spheres.
So the purpose of these two slides
was to kind of impart on the fact that this is here,
this is now, and there is a lot of money and expertise
being spent to kind of develop what this looks like.
And it's really a race between companies,
between countries to kind of go after what the promise
of this could look like.
So going back one level,
there's four or five ways you can kind of split up
what quantum means from an industry perspective.
We've just chosen to show it as five.
There is a compute segment, which is, you know, computers.
The second one is materials,
so properties with different spin
and different magnetic properties at the subatomic level
create new ways we can think about
and what kind of materials we could develop.
Sensors, like high fidelity,
are different ways to kind of measure
what we see in the physical world,
there's a whole kind of segment under quantum sensing.
And arguably, quantum sensing is further along
than even quantum computing with the types of assets.
So the third segment sessioned today
is gonna have a panel with quantum sensing companies
talking about what they have done
and where they're kind of going with it.
So these are kind of five things
that we've kind of broken up.
And quantum cryptography is two sides of it, it is,
how do we protect classical compute
and classical assets from the advent
when a quantum computer comes,
and also what does pure kind of quantum property mean
when that kinda comes around?
So it's both sides of that equation, is a market,
and there's a tremendous amount of market for it now.
And NIST recently announced a set of, you know,
protective algorithms to protect classical computers.
And there's a whole industry being formed
around how do we do that today
before true quantum comes about.
So not only is it quantum from a pure sensitive perspective,
but the transition that needs to come through
to make that happen over the next 10 years.
So there's businesses, there's industries,
there is applications, there is devices,
all being kind of created in what we call
the kind of like the overarching world of quantum
is really the idea.
So let me talk very quickly about two more things.
So if I go into the quantum computing,
this will give you kind of a very high level,
it's by Fractal, about some of the potential applications
that is possible in compute.
It also touches on cryptography and communications.
So I'm not gonna read the slide.
But there's enough material
about where these kind can be applied.
And the next one is around sensing,
these are some of the places and industries
and the key things that we can now decide on what to do.
There's a couple of things I'll mention,
like gravity meters that used to measure stuff, you know,
infrastructure in the ground.
The level of fidelity is going to be so much better
than what we have today.
We can entirely have a whole new industry
on infrastructure protection and risk mitigation.
We can have entirely new mechanisms
to understand how to deal with disasters
before they happen, like an earthquake,
far more so than we are able to do today.
So it'll give you a sense of the types of industries that,
you know, quantum is going to affect,
and what will kind of come about to make this happen.
So while all this was going on, one of the things,
so because of all of this stuff,
about three years ago, in 2022,
we decided to start getting the leadership
from around the world to come together in Washington, DC,
to kind of talk about what this means,
how do we collaborate,
what are the mechanisms we can use
to kind of drive forward progress,
because nothing in science and technology
is a straight line,
there's lots of steps and stops and starts.
One of my best examples of this is electric vehicles.
The first suite of electric vehicles was a set of taxis
that was deployed in London in 1897, 1897,
it was called the Hummingbird Taxi Service.
It lasted for about six years and went out of business.
And the reason it went out of business
was not because of the electric vehicle,
it went out of business because vulcanization of rubber
was not invented till 1920,
which means the tires kept breaking
on roads meant for horse carts.
And then we lost 100-something years
before the Hummingbird Service went back to London
in the 2000s.
So technologies fits and starts, ups and downs.
So we need to come together as a community.
So the Quantum World Congress allowed us that opportunity
for the thousand leaders from about 29 countries,
gathered this year,
to kind of talk about a whole number of advancements.
One of the big advancements there was,
Boeing announced the launch in 2026
of the first quantum satellite
that they wanna put up in the air.
So just to kind of give you a sense for that.
So that's the background to kind of level set.
So the plan for today, essentially, is threefold,
three sessions, first on compute, the second one,
we're gonna talk about how industry is getting involved,
something called the Global Industry Challenge.
And the third session is Quantum is Now,
focused primarily on devices and sensors.
And we would not be here without our sponsors,
I really want to thank our sponsors, sitting here as well.
IONQ, Microsoft, and Quantinuum,
thank you for your generosity
for allowing us to come to CES
and have this discussion and this dialogue.
We are really, really thrilled that you're all able to join
in hearing what they have to say.
So thank you, sponsors.
So with that,
let me invite my good friend, Jacqueline Tame.
Jacqueline is an operating partner at Playground Global,
which is a incredible venture capital firm
that have invested heavily into the quantum space.
And Jacqueline is gonna come up and introduce our panel.
Jackie.
<v ->Thank you so, so much, George and CES,</v>
and to all of you who have joined us this morning.
We have an early morning,
yet, hopefully, very lively and spicy conversation
about a topic that is critically important,
has a lot of coverage these days
for a whole host of reasons,
and that, hopefully, with that introduction from George,
you already know is well worth all of this focus
and investment and attention.
So I'm gonna briefly introduce
my esteemed panelists up here today,
and then I'm gonna offer a few sort of just opening remarks
from my vantage point.
And then we're gonna go into a pretty, I think,
robust discussion along the lines of all of the things
that George has just kind of highlighted for us.
So to my immediate left, we have Joe Broz,
who is a vice president of IBM Quantum,
and leads their business development efforts.
We have Margaret Arakawa,
who is the chief marketing officer at IONQ.
We have John Nici, who's the head
of Growth and Strategic Technologies for Microsoft.
And we have Nash Palaniswamy,
who is the chief commercial officer at Quantinuum.
So thank you all so much for being here.
And I think, just given, oh, yes,
please, thanks.
Appreciate that.
Yeah, so to have these four people,
whose jobs are clearly pretty important these days
for all of those respective companies,
be here to talk about this
I hope is another sort of just signal and indicator
of how critical this technology is, where we are,
and where we are in the business cycle here,
which we're gonna talk about in a lot of detail today.
I will offer just a really, really brief perspective,
which may be a little bit different
than what you hear from my colleagues,
just based on my background.
So as George shared,
I'm an operating partner with Playground Global,
which is an early-stage deep-tech venture capital firm.
I'm actually building our global government practice.
So I'm not on the investment side of the house.
Playground realized about a year ago,
maybe a little earlier,
that the government and industry intersection
and private capital intersection
around these critical emerging technologies is just,
you can't underestimate how important it is
to get those relationships right
and those elements of education and understanding right.
So much of my job, both internally and externally,
is educating the government stakeholders
about where we are in the markets for these technologies
for quantum computing and everything else.
And then, in turn,
helping to educate our portfolio companies
and industry partners and LPs on where the government is
and what that signal means.
And I grew up in the intelligence community
and the Department of Defense,
I ran the AI center at the Department of Defense
in my last kind of full-time role.
And the reason that I got into quantum,
I actually started with one of our portfolio companies
called Si-Quantum,
which is a hardware, a quantum computing hardware company,
is because I saw how absolutely behind we were
in the government on some of these technologies.
I saw it in the AI space, and then I started to learn
about the quantum technology aspect of things.
And so my vantage point is really,
I've never come at it from a business side until now.
And now, I get to see
sort of not only the threat aspect of it, right?
Which is how I grew up,
but I also see the unbelievable opportunity aspect of it
in terms of fundamentally changing
how we see and interact with the world
and unlock incredible revenue opportunities (laughs)
across a whole host of markets, right?
Which is what we're gonna talk about today.
So I'll offer three points before we go into our discussion.
For your context, publicly announced,
at least two utility-scale quantum computers
will be operational by 2028, at least,
we know of at least one company that's announced that.
Those computers will be 10,000 times
the size of Google's Willow hardware, recently announced,
for a scale perspective.
Quantum algorithms,
which we're gonna talk a lot about today,
are improving 1,000 times faster
than the hardware improvements that we're gonna talk about.
And no GPU will ever be able to answer
an important class of questions
about the quantum nature of nature.
This is what we need to unlock,
all of this, quantum technology for.
So I'm gonna start with a question, John, for you.
And the question is, and I'm sure that this is the question
on everybody's mind this week, there is a widespread belief
that quantum computing is still decades away, maybe two,
how does Microsoft's investment
in quantum technologies challenge this perception,
and how are you managing expectations about when enterprises
are actually gonna be seeing real ROI?
<v ->Well, we do believe that it's years, not decades.</v>
We are in the era of reliable quantum computing today.
We have achieved detecting errors,
correcting errors, and doing compute.
And that was really a big milestone for many of us up here,
to be able to compute and create answers
and data from these quantum systems.
You know, you mentioned a lot
about the intelligence community,
and there's an agency here
in the United States called DARPA,
who does research projects,
and the, you know, you can go back to GPS,
the internet, voice transcription, all have roots in DARPA.
And DARPA has funded and worked with many of us
to create supercomputing utility-scale quantum computing
before 2033, which is eight years away.
We are and many others are well on their way
to meeting that goal.
And so when I look at what we're doing in investing
at Microsoft, we're doing two very important things.
One, we're investing highly in our partners
and the capabilities from Quantinuum and IONQ
and others to make sure that a robust ecosystem,
that the skilling is there,
that we have the options and capabilities
to have different types of quantum computers.
We announced just a few months ago with another partner,
Atom Computing, that this calendar year,
we will ship the world's most powerful quantum computer
to customers with a discovery suite around it
that will help do an end-to-end analysis, discovery,
and solution for many types of problems.
<v ->You said, "This year," John.</v>
<v ->That's right, this calendar year.</v>
<v ->Okay.</v>
<v ->That's right.</v>
And on top of that, we're also pursuing
our own first-party quantum computer as well.
We've been on this journey over 15 years, closer to 20.
And we believe that these quantum computers
will absolutely have the ability to solve, as you said,
subatomic answers, model nature, and that is why we're here,
because you'll hear from many of the other panelists,
the solutions are happening today.
And, you know, as you learn more about it,
and as Quantum World Congress continues,
and we all see you probably in DC in September,
you'll see even more.
Now, the last part of your question
was how do we manage expectations in ROI.
And it's really important when we talk to our customers
to realize that there is an advantage coming,
just like there was with advanced analytics,
just like there was with GenAI.
Quantum computing will have that advantage for companies,
for businesses, for regions, for governments.
And so beginning that journey now
with understanding what does it mean,
what should I be focused on,
which of those areas that George showed
are most important to me, and where should I go,
and how do I get my hands on the capabilities today,
so I can actually experiment
and start to solve these problems, is critical,
because we will, in the next, as you said, Jacqueline,
one to two years, have those capabilities
ready for everyone to use at some level,
and then they will exponentially grow.
So that's more of how we manage expectations with customers
and let them understand there are folks who did very well
taking advantage of advanced analytics and then GenAI.
And the quantum computing revolution is the next one
that they need to be prepared for today.
<v ->And Margaret, did you have a perspective also</v>
on the kind of timeline aspect of this question?
<v ->Yes, I think quantum is now,</v>
quantum is now, that's the title of the track.
I guess, I think of it in, as George mentioned,
there's 40 to $50 billion already invested in this industry.
In this entire panel,
we have companies, real-life companies,
with revenue and customers and a strategy.
So for us in particular, you know,
our strategy was, "Let's hit the performance benchmarks,"
we all are hitting them.
"Let's hit the scale benchmarks," we're all hitting them.
And then, finally, on QI,
we are focusing on making sure we build quantum computers
that are data center ready,
'cause we know there's lots and lots
of data centers in the world,
and there's gonna be a collaborative impact of CPUs,
GPUs, and QPUs.
And we need to make sure that these quantum computers
can be in these data centers.
So is there a strategy? We have the strategy.
Are there customers?
You know, we work with the Air Force,
we work with Hyundai, we work with Airbus.
Our customers actually coming to all of us
and focusing on us helping them, you know,
solve their biggest problems.
And then the third thing is,
'cause we're all business people,
is anyone making revenue?
You know, IONQ and a lot of our companies here,
we're businesses.
You know, IONQ has been doubling revenue every year.
So those are important aspects of, is quantum here?
These sort of markers that business people use,
those are the things you should use to evaluate
that quantum is here, and we are working on it now.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
Joe, I'm gonna actually ask you a question
about another kind of myth, right?
We're gonna do some myth-busting today, that quantum
is going to entirely replace classical computing.
Can you share your insights on how the two will coexist,
do you think?
<v ->Sure. Thank you.</v>
Let me address this question from the IBM standpoint,
and let me set a little bit of a stage.
We firmly believe that we are now in an era
of quantum utility,
and we are very confident that quantum advantage
is in the near term, as our panelists have discussed.
We follow a roadmap.
We published a roadmap in 2019,
we have followed it and met every milestone on time
or ahead of time in the last five years.
That roadmap calls for a 10,000-qubit machine,
error corrected, to be field in '29,
and a 100,000 qubit machine in '33.
We expect to meet every milestone along that way,
and that provides machinery that has great capabilities.
Let me set that stage.
We went into the cloud in 2016 at IBM.
Since that time, we have had 600,000 users use our system,
register, and use the system,
running over 3 trillion quantum circuits on our system.
We have deployed over 70 quantum computers.
We have 250 organizations, companies, universities,
research labs, national labs on our quantum network.
This shows you, you know,
there's a large group of people that do, in fact,
find utility in using these machines,
and expanding the boundaries of scientific capability.
Let me be precise about what we mean by utility
and quantum advantage.
Utility is where a quantum circuit can be run
on a quantum machine with a capability equal to
or better than that circuit can be run
by brute-force classical simulation.
Advantage is really
about the upcoming quantum compute capability
that will outperform all classical methods.
So where we are today is,
we can exceed the brute-force simulation methods
for quantum circuits that are out there.
Our paper in June of '23 showed the,
and really demonstrated the utility,
and there have been 50, 60 papers published since
that are using qubit numbers,
over 100 qubits in deep circuits,
that cannot be simulated classically.
<v ->Great. Thank you so much.</v>
And I apologize, I can't see everybody's faces.
So if you have reactions, please,
please go ahead and jump in.
But Nash, in the meantime,
Quantinuum is operating at the intersection
of both hardware and software.
And how are you simplifying the explanation
of your dual focus
when you discuss quantum's transformative potential
with your customers?
<v ->Sure, thank you.</v>
And yeah, hopefully, everybody can see me.
It's the corner here.
I'm 5'7",
I think I can be above that.
Yeah, so, you know, my background, you know,
I've spent since '88 in accelerated computing, right?
I've been in the CPU and making the CPU better
from CPU plus GPU.
And the software and the algorithms are a major part
of the complete solution, right?
So from a Quantinuum standpoint, you know,
we have already announced that we are gonna go after
a universal, fully fault-tolerant computer by 2029, right?
So to build a quantum computer,
there are certain things that you need to do, right?
Which is you have to have the highest fidelity,
you have to also handle all the operations,
it's gotta be universal.
Clifford gates and non-Clifford gates, right?
So there's lots of things that you need to happen
on the hardware side.
On the software side, we take a very different view,
which is we have to develop the algorithms
and everything necessary
that will run not only on our system,
but also on other people's system, right?
So the state of the quantum industry's in such a situation,
that we wanna make sure there are open standards also.
We've also open source software.
For example, we have taken something called ticket
and given it to the industry
so that you can develop compilers for other hardware, right?
So our strategy's a complete top-down approach,
where we're gonna build
a universal fully fault-tolerant computer, right?
It's gotta be universal.
There's no point having a CPU
if you can run only two instructions, right?
You gotta run all the instructions,
so you can run a complete piece of software, right?
And from a software standpoint, we're gonna make sure
the core components needed to advance the industry
is open source.
We'll have our key algorithms that we work
with our customers, such as BMW, that we will use,
so that can be used on different systems, right?
We don't want a particular customer to be saying,
"Hey, you can only use a Quantinuum system," right?
We wanna make sure it's available in all systems.
So an open approach is very important for quantum computing.
And our approach is to make sure
that we are working on the full stack
and making it easily accessible for everybody, right?
Including other hardware vendors
and software vendors, right?
So other software vendors can run on our system also.
<v ->Perfect. Go ahead, Joe.</v>
<v ->Yeah, I might follow on that, what Nash just said.</v>
You know, there's a myth or a misconception that quantum
is somehow going to displace classical computing,
and that's just not the case.
Quantum computing is going to enhance
classical high-performance compute.
You can look at it as an accelerator, an adjunct.
The way we see that architecture
is what we call quantum-centric supercomputing,
what this means is, you take a given problem,
and you divide it into those resources that are quantum
and those resources that will use the classical computation.
A good example is in chemistry.
You all, you know, remember from high school chemistry
that the bulk electrons, you know, can be calculated.
They're not really involved in a chemical reaction.
Those can be well approximated in classical systems.
But the valence electrons,
those electrons that have high correlation
and are very active in a chemical reaction,
those then, that part of the problem can be adjudicated
to the quantum resources, to the quantum processing unit,
and the CPU and the quantum processing unit, the QPU,
can work in concert with each other in an iterative fashion.
And we showed in a paper, published last year,
using iron sulfide as the model molecule,
something very essential to all proteins in life,
that that kind of a calculation can be done very efficiently
using this hybrid architecture
of both classical compute combined with quantum computing.
So I wanna make sure people realize this is not an idea
of somehow replacing classical high-performance computing,
but it really will be an accelerator, an adjunct, an add-on,
and an enhancement of those capabilities.
<v ->Yeah, just a quick add-on to that, right?</v>
You know, hybrid computing, right,
accelerated computing, you know, it's always gonna be CPU
plus GPU plus this quantum technology plus something else.
There's gonna be other technologies
which are gonna come, neuromorphic.
You know, this is the vision, right?
I think just to have a little bit of humor here, right?
I think I've heard other people say,
"It is supercomputing-centric quantum computing,
you know, not the other way around."
So, just, yeah.
<v ->Go ahead.</v>
<v ->Well, I was just gonna say, you know,</v>
to make it real for everyone,
Nash and Quantinuum and Microsoft worked together
and devised a catalyst problem,
which is a very important chemistry problem.
And we used classic computing, HPC resources,
plus AI to drive the system,
plus we spun out the difficult pieces of it
to a quantum circuit on Quantinuum's machines
using logical qubits.
So that quantum circuit created the data that we needed
to go feed back into the AI model, so it could be trained,
and then properly estimate the science problem
of this catalyst, which it did, and it did accurately.
So to Joe's point, this is your AI, HPC,
and quantum working together,
not to come up with a random number
or think about something, but we actually, what we believe
is the first ever last year end-to-end proof
of a science problem-
<v ->That's right.</v>
That's right.
Yeah, and I think it was really made possible
by a couple of things, right?
One was definitely, you know,
the key work done by Microsoft, right, in the, you know,
in the error detection and correction space.
You know, you have some fantastic scientists.
And also the high fidelity that, you know,
the quantum system brought in place,
so you could do that complete
in an effort to get a real solution in place.
So thank you for that work.
And I think we'll see more of this from, you know,
people in the industry.
And I think John gave an example, you know, of IBM.
And Margaret, I'm sure you have other examples.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
Well, one thing I wanted to just go back to which he said
which I thought was incredibly important
for the audience is access to quantum,
'cause we talk about these different applications,
we talk about the machines that we're building
and delivering and shipping,
I think what's very different,
'cause I worked at Microsoft,
we overlapped 20 years at Microsoft.
I worked on every commercial product Microsoft sells,
except for, I think, CRM.
So hardware all the way to the cloud,
on-premises, hybrid, you know, cloud, metal.
But the thing that was different for all of us in compute
that quantum is incredibly, it's exciting,
you can buy or get access to a full quantum computer system,
but we are also today available on various clouds.
IONQ's computers are sitting on Microsoft Azure,
on AWS Bracket, on Google Cloud.
You know, Quantinuum and IONQ both work
with the Oak Ridge National Research Lab
to give access to quantum computing to all the people in HPC
that wanna transition for high-performance knowledge
to a hybrid knowledge.
So that's very different from what I grew up.
I grew up coding on minicomputers.
I don't know if any of you, that's pretty, way back.
So the step beyond a mainframe,
but we'd simulate something,
it would take a week to get back one answer.
My iPhone can get back answers from 50 different people,
all at the same time, in an instant.
So quantum is very different now,
we've learned from our past,
and we're trying to bring quantum to the masses sooner
and faster so that, you know,
developers can create algorithms and create applications.
<v ->And I want to add that IBM was the first in the cloud.</v>
<v ->So just in the interest of time, because, unfortunately,</v>
we don't have enough time to go into all of the things
that we should be going into today.
And please see us after the panel outside
if you wanna continue the conversations.
Let's talk really quickly about some of the applications
that we are kind of making a lot of progress on
and their commercial utility.
Margaret, I'm gonna start with you.
So IONQ has already showcased applications in finance,
logistics, et cetera.
Can you share a compelling example
of a client leveraging quantum today
to solve a previously intractable problem?
And then I'm gonna ask kind of each of you
to share your favorite application stories.
<v ->Well, I think the work that we do with Hyundai,</v>
we've actually been working with Hyundai
for a very long time.
We've actually are now on the third project
that we're working on them with.
And I think what's important is,
when you have very large companies, like Hyundai,
and people go, "Why are they talking to you guys,"
any of us, or BMW with Quantinuum?
'Cause they have access
to the world's fastest supercomputers.
So why do businesses need to talk to quantum?
It's because they need that collaboration.
They need HPC, and they need quantum.
So for a lot of industries that need, you know,
generative AI capabilities,
can you actually look at images and detect them
and sort them and actually manage them?
We worked with Hyundai on autonomous driving,
'cause it turns out, machines,
they look at a stop sign, and it's an octagon, and it's red,
if it gets hit by a little bit of rain,
and somebody hit the stop sign, you know, a day ago,
and it's no longer upright, there's no picture of that,
there's no picture of the gray clouds in the sky
because then the car looks at it and says,
"Ah, that's not a stop sign, I'll go right through it."
So how do you take that simple problem, but intractable,
and break it down using quantum and classical
to actually help create cars that are safer?
So those are the important...
Like, when you bring it down to what's quantum gonna do,
it's gonna make our lives safer, we're gonna be healthier,
we're gonna be, I hope, stronger, faster, better.
But there's very specific examples today
where we're trying to make the world a better place.
<v ->John, can you share one</v>
about sort of the chemistry application,
potentially?
<v ->Yeah, you know,</v>
there's a lot of work being done in chemistry
and material science.
I mean, 96% of all manufactured goods
that we interact with every day in the world
rely on some sort of chemistry, material, some discovery.
Do you wanna create a new material that lasts better,
but recycles more effectively?
Do you wanna remove forever chemicals from coolants?
Do you wanna create a new battery that lasts longer,
recharges better, is lighter, is impervious to water?
These are the type of things
that we're working with our customers on today.
So, you know, you can go look at the public studies,
but with Pacific Northwest National Labs,
we've spent time with them,
because we used a highly specialized AI model in HPC
to simulate 32 million different compounds
for a new lithium battery.
And in less than a month,
we were able to bring that down to eight candidates,
work with them to figure out
which one would actually have the parameters that we need.
And then it went into a wet lab,
and we created a lithium battery that uses 70% less lithium.
That was 20 years of discovery
baked into less than six months.
But what's the turn on that?
Now, how do we go and do the intractable next problem,
which is, what, at the molecular level,
will happen in this new electrolyte?
And that's where the quantum computer can help us there.
So we're looking at solutions
around removing PFAS chemicals from data center coolants,
we're looking at these new battery types.
We're working with customers across the globe
to figure out new drug discoveries,
how proteins bond, how we can simulate that.
And, you know, one of the fun examples
that recently has come up that we've started to think about
and work on is is the field of turbulence.
And turbulence, while it's a classic physics problem,
not a quantum problem, it's highly complex
to simulate nature and fluid flow and plasma flow.
And so I was speaking with an MIT professor.
And he said, "You know, I've been doing this for 25 years,
and I feel like we're stuck,
and we need a quantum computer that can help simulate,
at the atomic level, the different aspects of turbulence,
so that we can extract that data,"
which is what quantum computers are very good at,
simulating natural data,
and then we can feed that back into our AI models,
which would help us solve what's the new material,
what's the new wing shape.
You can use the AI to answer the question,
find the solution.
But right now, we don't have the capabilities
to even train a model 'cause we don't have that data,
realistic, simulated data.
And you've probably all heard the issues
with synthetic data coming from AI models.
This is the game changer there.
So when all of our quantum computers start to be able
to create that data with accuracy,
and like what we showed in the catalyst,
work that we did together with Quantinuum,
then you're gonna start to see us be able to use
all three of those aspects, HPC, AI, and quantum,
to not just say, "I have a problem,"
but, "Where's the solution?"
And that is, as we've all expressed here, that's now,
and will only accelerate exponentially
over the next two years based on the roadmaps of all of us.
<v ->What John and Margaret just outlined,</v>
and I'm sure Nash will agree,
it is the era of algorithm development now.
We're getting to the point with our hardware
that we're really now focused on software,
and we're focused on software that is going to expand
this hybrid compute environment very efficiently
as well as algorithms directed toward chemistry,
materials, AI, machine learning,
these are the specific application areas,
but it really is the era now of algorithm development.
We have these machines, they are at our disposal,
they are available in the cloud,
scientists have access to them.
And our aim is to get more and more scientists,
not just those in physics or chemistry or computer science,
but social scientists, psychologists, neuroscientists,
structural biologists, people in many different disciplines
that could benefit from performing calculations quantumly.
<v ->I think the analogy that most people are very used to is,</v>
there's hardware, there's software, there's apps.
We're in the stage right now of building the killer apps
for every industry.
So that is the reason why quantum is now,
that is how we grew all of the ecosystems of compute,
'cause you need use cases, and you need the killer apps.
This is why, as he said, we have the computers,
they are available for people to use.
Right now, we're all working on the algorithms,
which are the applications-
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->That will break through in big, big,</v>
complex problems.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
Yeah, with that, you know, I'd like to add, you know,
something which is very important for me
and for our company, right?
Which is in the computational biology space.
We just announced something in Singapore.
We are working very closely with Microsoft in this,
but, you know, our investors are our customers.
So we're working with customers on algorithms
and applications, so we have an effort with Amgen
on using machine learning to do peptide binding, right?
This is super passionate to me,
especially 'cause it's gonna help get better vaccines,
especially in the cancer vaccine space, right?
So my brother-in-law, who's a professor at Emory,
Dr. Selvaraj, he's working on a vaccine for cancer, right?
Which is basically looking at a cancer tumor,
and there are different peptides, it's not one thing.
And everybody's tumor, you know, whether it's lung cancer,
is gonna be different.
So he's actually creating a vaccine
from the peptides in the tumor, right?
And putting it back, so your immune system kills it,
your immune system is basically a break,
an accelerator, and a gas tank, okay?
So you have to remove the break,
somebody's already got a, you know, a noble price for that.
The gas tank and the accelerator are important, right?
So this can actually kill the tumor the first time,
but then you have to continuously give them
these vaccines again, but you don't have the tumor anymore
and the peptides, right?
So you have to take the peptides, get the peptides out,
and figure out which peptides can actually bind
and actually create the acceleration, okay?
So that's where quantum computing
is gonna be really, really useful,
to figure out which peptides you use,
so that you can actually accelerate
those T cells going and killing those cancers, right?
So excellent opportunities, I think, with quantum computing.
We are already working on this with several companies,
and I think it's exciting space.
<v ->So I hope that you've taken away,</v>
if nothing else from today, the unbelievable importance
of what this technology is unlocking already
and will continue
to unlock across disciplines, across sectors.
I know we are at time,
but I'm just gonna ask for a 15-second from each of you,
what is the most exciting hardware or software development
that you anticipate in the next 12 to 24 months.
Joe?
<v ->I would say adoption algorithm development</v>
in some of the application areas that we just outlined.
<v ->Great. Margaret?</v>
<v ->I'd say we have hardware, software applications,</v>
what's incredibly exciting is quantum networking.
All of us here, we need to build the quantum internet,
and that is what we're actually focused
on doing now as well.
<v ->I'd say that where we're focused</v>
is even coming up a level on the algorithm
and creating a co-pilot-like experience
that automates the entire scientific reasoning loop.
So you describe a goal, and you get a solution,
and you can do that without being a quantum physicist,
which I am not.
So many of the examples you heard here,
you may say to yourself, "Well, I'm not in academia,
I'm not a quantum physicist,"
but the algorithms and then the agentic framework
that will interact with you trying to solve a problem
and take away what you need to do across HPC,
AI, and quantum for you, that's what I'm most excited about,
and we're going to be seeing vast improvements in that
in the next year or two.
<v ->Very cool. Nash?</v>
<v ->All right, so I'm last.</v>
So I think there are three things
which I see happening.
<v ->15 seconds, please.</v>
<v ->Oh, (laughs) okay.
The first one is,
the machines are gonna get more reliable, right?
Higher fidelity, okay? So I think that is gonna happen.
You're gonna have better error correction and algorithms.
End of the day, you need more qubits,
but at better fidelity.
So I think you're gonna see that happen,
and you'll see a lot of progress in that in this year.
The second one is in terms of applications,
I explained a very important application,
which is probably affecting everybody on this planet, okay?
You'll see more progress
in those types of applications and algorithms,
with a combination of CPU plus GPU plus quantum.
And the third one, I think you alluded to it
in terms of how quantum can help AI,
especially in the data side,
and you're gonna see a lot of progress on that side,
especially coming from us, I think, in that space.
So these are three important things which are gonna happen,
which is really gonna take quantum computing
to the next level in 2025.
<v ->Amazing. Well, everyone, quantum is here.</v>
Thank you so much to our panelists.
We really appreciate your time today.
And we'll see you next time.
<v ->Thank you.</v>
<v ->Thank you, Jackie.</v>