<v ->All right, so we made it.</v>
Session six, now capping off the 25th year of Connect2Car.
I appreciate everybody sticking with us.
Who was in the first session?
All right, excellent, excellent.
Well, this is gonna be a treat for all of you that are here.
Coming back to the beginning,
again, this was about getting the aftermarket
and the OEM talking to each other
about integration and integrating products into the vehicle.
And while that's still an issue
for a lot of the aftermarket providers,
a lot of it's been solved by going to data buses
and other things.
The very first session at Connect2Car
was actually a discussion between IDB-1394,
IDB can and most,
and having a conversation about those networks
going into a vehicle, 'cause at the point that point,
most of those networks weren't in.
So we've gone from that to where we are today,
which is pretty amazing.
Pretty amazing panelists today,
and again, I appreciate everybody hanging out with us.
So right now I'd like to introduce my new friend Logan,
who invited me to a party last night,
so it's why I am letting him do the panel.
We met out in the parking lot earlier.
Logan is the director of Mobility and Smart Cities
for Plug and Play Tech center,
which I'm very interested in coming to see.
And you're gonna have a little conversation
with Chris Coulter at CampX for Volvo
to talk about fostering innovation, right?
Fantastic.
<v Logan>Awesome, thank you so much, Chris.</v>
Really looking forward to it.
Hello everybody, fantastic to be here
as we end the Connect2Car, one of the longest tracks.
I mean, this is just fantastic, so really happy to be here.
As you mentioned, my name is Logan Azelton
and I am the Director of US Mobility in Smart Cities
for Plug and Play Tech Center.
We're the world's largest venture capital company
and we run over 60 different accelerator programs
across the world, connecting startups to new corporations.
And like he had mentioned,
I would love to introduce my new buddy, Chris Coulter,
to come up here.
He's with Volvo CampX, so if you guys wouldn't mind,
just give him a nice round of applause as he comes on up.
Awesome, so Chris is gonna help us out.
He's gonna talk about kind of the importance of innovation
with different startups
and kind of the collaboration within the industry
and how that can move the ball forward.
So Chris, the stage is all yours.
<v ->Thank you, thank you Logan.</v>
Logan's birthday today.
Did anybody?
Yeah.
Be careful what you tell me,
I don't let it go so quick, right?
So yeah, okay, thank you Logan.
So I'm Chris Coulter.
I'm the CampX North America Hub Lead, CampX by Volvo Group.
The Volvo Group is not Volvo car.
We're Volvo, we make trucks, construction equipment,
power solutions for (indistinct), buses, service solutions,
finance solutions, so a lot.
102, 104,000 people globally,
so for those of you not totally familiar with us.
So CampX was started in 2019 in Sweden.
The purpose is to find new technologies
and innovation for the Volvo group
through startups actually.
So we run proof of values.
There are four hubs globally.
There's a hub in Sweden, India, and France
and in the US representing North America, so, yeah.
We have three programs.
We have the incubator, which is very early phase startups,
where we're strategically looking down the road,
we're demand driven innovation.
So somebody said, this is what we're looking for,
or we're looking at our strategies
and how startups can complement those strategies.
So we'll bring them in a program to be with us two years
or up to two years to develop the startups further.
Also, we have a venture client program,
which is startups that are more mature, closer to scaling.
So we run proof of value projects in that case.
We've ran over 200 of those since the beginning
around the four hubs there.
So, and then we also have the venture client,
which is where employees internally can have an idea
that we create spinoff companies around.
Also, if there's IP at universities
that we can capture and scale,
we'll also use the venture client program for that.
So a little bit about it.
We have tools that allow us to go fast.
If you guys have read "The Innovator's Dilemma,"
I like to to say that was a lot of inspiration
for how I like to think about this.
So we have the tools, we have contracts, processes,
and we can go pretty fast.
I was telling somebody last night, I think the fastest case
that we've had from inception to approval
was in two under two weeks.
So to give you an idea of what we're talking about
when we need speed.
So yeah, and then you talked about the value Logan
of working with startups, right?
So it is speed.
When you're in a a large corporate,
the challenge sometimes becomes speed.
So startups can be a shot in the arm
to remind us we need to be fast,
but also to innovate more quickly.
They can change the way we're thinking about something
if we approach this correctly, right?
So we may think we're going down one path,
but a startup could come in
with a completely different idea,
and even in some cases, we co-collaborate and we can come up
with an entirely new direction between the two of us,
so that's one of the values of speed, agility, right?
And it goes both ways, so yeah.
Logan, I think that we're on the clock here,
so I'll hand it back over to you to tell us.
You're gonna introduce us
to some of the super exciting startups here,
maybe a few that have even been through our program here,
so I'll hand it back over to you.
<v ->Yeah, absolutely, thank you so much, Chris.</v>
Everybody give Chris one more round of applause.
Awesome, so like Chris mentioned,
now we're coming into the next portion of this
where we're gonna demonstrate a few of these different
very successful world-class companies
that have been able to break through
into the automotive industry and beyond
in order to kind of improve upon a lot of different things.
So this is where innovation starts at the heart.
So to start us off, we have Jeremy Agulnek.
He is the SVP of HAAS Alert.
So HAAS Alert notifies drivers
of incoming emergency vehicles
and then connects vehicles for better visibility,
faster response times.
So everybody give him a round of applause.
<v ->Thank you Logan and just a quick little plug.</v>
So Plug and Play was instrumental in getting HAAS Alert
introduced to our first automotive OEM partner, Stellantis,
and helping get commercialized with them
and also being part of the CampX program,
so it's been great working with you guys all.
So a little bit about HAAS Alert.
When HAAS Alert's CEO was working formerly
at HERE Technologies,
he was almost struck and killed by an ambulance
when he was driving through downtown Chicago.
Thankfully, everything was okay, but that experience of his
really transformed him into trying to solve for initially,
how can we help cars and emergency vehicles
communicate with each other?
But as he dug into this roadway safety problem,
he realized that it's a much broader problem,
and so he expanded HAAS Alert's mission
to now really think about,
how do we make safety available to everyone?
And our approach from the beginning towards roadway safety
has been very different, and unlike anyone else's.
We didn't wanna just go out there
and build new to market technology that required,
you know, 10 plus years to get fully adopted by OEMs, right?
The people you see here on the screen,
they needed help immediately,
and they couldn't wait 10 years
for safety solutions to become available to them.
We also just didn't build a software platform
and expect everyone to come to us and start connecting.
Frankly, that's kind of lazy, right?
You gotta put in the hard work, and that's what we did.
We literally went door to door talking to fire departments,
talking to tow truck operators, talking to DOTs,
and developing a community of users
and a community of safety advocates
who really wanted to make a difference in the world.
And we are the voice of these people
that you see here into the automotive industry.
They don't have a chance to go to events like this
and to meet with OEMs, so we are representing them
when we're sitting at the table.
So a couple weeks ago,
the Illinois State Police had a press conference
where they were announcing their safety partnership
with HAAS Alert.
The director that you see here stood at the podium
and he talked about the safety risks
that the men and women of his department
faced every single day when they're out on the roadway.
He also took the opportunity to thank Chrysler, Dodge,
Jeep, Ram, Mercedes-Benz, and Volkswagen
for investing in safety
because those are the only OEMs today
that are actually warning their drivers
about emergency vehicles that are up in the road.
Sadly, less than one week later,
trooper Clay Carns was clearing debris from the highway
when he was struck and killed by a pickup truck.
At the funeral,
that same director stood at the podium once again,
but this time he had a very different message.
And here's what he said,
"People have got to slow down, move over, pay attention,
just give a damn about these human beings.
Have some respect for officers
who do this job on a daily basis."
You could sense the level of frustration in his voice.
Now, it's no secret that OEMs care about safety, right?
For example, this is on the wall at GM's headquarters,
right, zero crashes.
You see companies like Honda issuing press releases
talking about how they're gonna be investing more
in their focus on safety.
Now the good news is that all these OEMs today,
not just the ones here, but every single OEM,
they have vehicles that are capable of communicating
with their cloud platforms.
And as such, they have vehicles that are V2X capable,
and they can start making a safety difference today
through that existing capability that they have.
So what HAAS Alert has built is our Safety Cloud platform.
It's the first V2X as-a-service solution.
And what's unique about it is that we can easily help OEMs
achieve their safety goals faster,
cost effectively, and more easily.
And it's really a gateway for the OEM
into the broader connected transportation ecosystem.
Safety Cloud enables vehicles
to receive information and messages
from other vehicles and infrastructure in the roadway,
so that their drivers and their driving systems
can make safer and smarter decisions.
Safety Cloud also helps OEMs
communicate with other OEM vehicles on the road,
especially when their drivers are most vulnerable.
For example, when they're stopped in the roadway,
or let's say they're a wrong way driver
entering the highway in the wrong direction,
by simply integrating the cloud platform
into Safety Cloud through a single API,
all the sudden you have immediate access
to the world's largest V2X network.
Now, to achieve this goal
and to really provide global solution for the OEMs,
we realize that we can't do it all ourselves.
In fact, core to HAAS Alert's strategy
is enabling an ecosystem for other companies
to participate and get connected
into the transportation network broadly.
And we're humbled and proud
that all these organizations that you see here
are trusting Safety Cloud today.
And even just yesterday,
we announced a partnership with AiDEN,
who you'll hear from in a minute.
And that big red firetruck that you see on the show floor,
that's also connected to Safety Cloud
through our partnership with Oshkosh and Pierce.
So, you know, when you think about
HAAS Alert's user community,
we've got over 4,000 partners
that are working with us today
combined with the ecosystem that I just showed you.
You get to a scale now
where we can really start to make a difference
with roadway safety.
And even though we're processing a lot of data
every single day, you know, our job is still not done
until everyone can make it home safely.
And that's what we're on a mission to continue doing.
So thank you for the few minutes here.
You know, we'll be
at the COVESA networking reception tonight.
We've got some demo vehicles there.
We'd love to connect with you more throughout the week,
so feel free to reach out.
If you scan that QR code,
it sends me an email immediately
and we'll look forward to talking.
Thank you.
<v Logan>Thank you so much, Jeremy, all right.</v>
And now we're just gonna keep it going.
As he mentioned, we're gonna bring up AiDEN.
So AiDEN is a software only solutions
providing in-car services with their white label
bi-directional hub.
Niclas Gyllenram, I am super excited to hear from you.
The stage is yours.
Everybody, round of applause.
<v Niclas>Oh, thank you.</v>
Great to be here, thanks for the introduction,
and yeah, I'm from AiDEN,
and going straight to what we do, we basically connect cars.
That's the core of the whole idea really.
It's a no-code app framework.
We put data privacy first, simply because if you do,
then you're able to do more, not less, actually.
Where do I control the slides?
Is this one?
The green button?
Okay, so my name is Niclas.
I've been working for AiDEN Automotive
for the last four years.
Before that, I've done about 20 years
in the automotive industry,
working mainly in infotainment and connected vehicles.
So I think that, basically the aspects of vehicles
that have failed most over the last two decades.
I feel very frustrated about that.
For a long time, we had built-in navigation systems
and music players and voice control systems
that frankly people didn't want to use.
They would probably use their phones instead.
Over the last four or five years,
that has changed a little bit.
Now, we've got pretty much the whole industry
building infotainment systems based on Android automotive,
and suddenly you can get
more different mature navigation systems
from HERE Technologies from Waze from Google Maps and so on,
but there's still something missing,
and that is really what we're addressing with AiDEN.
It's been 20 years, for me at least, of talk in the industry
where we've been talking about all these different things
about how you should service your vehicle.
We had the last session on connecting with 911 responders,
connected insurance, paying for services, and so on,
and frankly, there's no shortage of amazing companies
building awesome services, but still,
there's just no connected services at scale.
Any one of you who have a new car,
most of you actually, if you have a really new car,
probably already have a vehicle
with an Android-based system.
You have all the necessary hardware and software,
but still, there's no services.
This is the current state.
Hardware is there, there's a common software platform,
there's millions of vehicles on the roads as we speak,
but still no connected services at scale.
This is what we're addressing.
So the question of course becomes why?
Why is it like that?
Well, it turns out that I,
frankly, when I started working on Android eight years ago
for the automotive industry, I actually initially thought,
great, our work here is done.
Now it's all gonna be like the phone industry,
everything's gonna be connected and smart
and we'll have all the apps in the world.
But that hasn't happened,
and there's a multitude of different reasons for that.
And I think these are at least the main reasons
why we don't have connected services currently.
First of all, contrary to the phone industry,
the automotive industry is much, much more fragmented.
Like the largest automotive OEMs
still have less than 10% of the complete global market.
That's unlikely to change significantly any time soon.
The service side of it, the parking companies,
the charging, fueling, insurance, 911 responder,
that's even more fragmented.
On a global scale,
you'd probably need to have tens of thousands
or even hundreds of thousands of different services
to cover, to have global coverage.
Now you might wonder, why don't you just build apps?
I used to work for Volvo cars before I was at AiDEN,
and we actually tried to do just that on Android.
So that's how we started with the realization
that something needs to be done.
We worked with
one of the largest charging infrastructure providers
here in the US.
They built an app, we deployed it into production vehicles,
and that whole project took roughly 12 months.
And to me, that was the proof point that this will not work.
There's no way for any car company really to do that
with 10 or 100,000 different service providers,
and there's no way that that charging company can do it
with 40, 50 different OEMs.
It also turns out that technically the services,
the types of services you want in a vehicle
are different to what you have in phones.
Most of the things you do on your phone
is something where you pick up the phone and you engage
and you initiate something to get something done.
Whereas with cars, like with insurance or with service
and maintenance and tire services, whatever you want,
those are mainly things
that you just run in the background all the time.
You will never start your trip
by launching the insurance app in your vehicle, right?
You'll never start your trip
by launching the Let's Serve My Vehicle app.
If you don't launch it, it's not running.
This is a main difference actually.
With our solution now,
well, frankly, and that's part of the main problem here,
they mainly need to run in the background,
and they need to communicate different sets of data,
and they need to be able to support
any kind of user interface,
and lastly and most importantly,
as I touched upon in the beginning,
they need to also be serving data privacy regulations.
And especially in the EU, you have something called GDPR,
which I think on a global scale
is probably the strictest privacy regulation.
So these are all the problems that you need to have solved.
So conclusion, what we need,
we need something in the industry
because nothing has happened over the last 20 years
when it comes to actually scaling services.
And I think it needs to be something that is scalable,
something that actually works across markets,
across car brands, across models.
It has to be flexible.
It can't be limited to what anyone,
let's say automaker is saying that these are the limits,
this is the amount of data or the type of data
or the type of user interface you can build
because that's all gonna be different
for any one particular service provider.
And it also has to be sustainable.
That charging app I told you about in the beginning
that we spent 12 months on,
I actually don't think you can get it anymore
because as the cars update to newer versions of Android
every one or two years, nobody has the time or energy
to keep updating and maintaining old apps,
so now it's no longer there.
And finally, now, I come to what I think is a solution
to this problem.
So what we do with AiDEN, it's a software solution
that's compatible with any Android automotive vehicle.
That means that it's immediately possible to run it on
pretty much all the major OEMs,
newest car models that are launched now.
It has a data privacy first approach
so that people are able to see exactly what is requested
in terms of data from them
and exactly what they get in return,
what service is requesting to know my position
and for what purpose.
And people are in control of their data
and control of their services.
It's sustainable because it's a no code solution.
So as a third party service provider,
you can connect with vehicles
and have an in-vehicle app-like experience
without having to write any code, none, no code whatsoever.
And that actually is what makes it
both flexible and scalable.
And the UX we allow in the vehicles
are basically anything you can do in a web browser,
you can now do with an app-like approach in the vehicle.
And our current status
is that we're working with multiple different partners,
not only HAAS Alert and Mavi
that you will hear from later here.
We're also deploying later this spring
with one of the largest global OEMs.
We are going to deploy one pay for fuel service.
There's gonna be safety services,
contextual automatic road and traffic information,
connected insurance, and automatic tolling services.
And if you are either working for a car company
and you're interested in getting more flexible services
onto your vehicles, please reach out.
If you're any service provider
that actually think it would be,
you would be able to build a great automotive service,
also, please reach out.
We will also be at the COVESA event at the Bellagio tonight
with HAAS Alert and Mavi, and yeah, that's it.
Thank you very much,
and I also would like to thank Connect2Car and COVESA
for letting us come here and pitch.
Thank you.
<v ->All right, thank you so much Niclas and AiDEN,</v>
making the roads better and making the roads safer.
Speaking of making the roads better,
now we're gonna call up Mavi.io and the CEO Cynthia Hollen.
She is about to tell you about OnMyWay Commerce
and the trailblazing in car commerce marketplace,
transforming the world's automotive, retail, and payments.
Give a nice another round of a hand for Cynthia, everybody.
<v ->Thank you, thank you, Logan.</v>
Green is for clicking?
Oh, the big green button.
Hi everybody, thank you, my name is Cynthia,
and I think that what we're about to talk about
is a summary of a lot of what we've heard about
all throughout this day, because to me,
shopping and having your car do stuff for you
and get stuff done is the ultimate expression
of what we're all trying to get to with Connect2Car.
We are building in-car commerce to solve the problem
that you are now all saying to yourself
because you're used to being able
to get stuff done with your phone.
You're starting to see these awesome new applications
and great interfaces show up in your car
and every single one of you is now saying,
"Well, wait a minute,
how come my car can't do this thing for me?"
And the expectations that we have as consumers
from the rest of our world is quickly getting focused
on this unbelievably biggest interactive screen
in my household.
And we have understood
because we've been building e-commerce for 20 years
in different channels
that the right modality for the right use case
is the thing that makes consumers
be able to get more things done.
This great big giant electronic shopping cart on wheels,
as I said earlier, is the modality
that's allowing us to bring in-car commerce to you.
We know that consumers, when surveyed,
open-ended questions, when we ask them,
"What is it that you want to have your car do for you?"
Off the top of their head, they absolutely say,
"I wanna be able to pay for,
have my car figure out for me parking,
fuel, car washing, tolls."
More than 50% of them also say,
"I also want it to be able to get all of my erranding
and food and groceries
and other sorts of purchasing for me."
That's what we are focused on.
We're focused on the moms and the Uber drivers,
the professional drivers who all say,
"Please just make my life easier.
Make me not have to do math when I'm walking around.
Make me not have to get the kids out of the seatbelt
in the back.
Make this great big giant computer I have
do all of my work for me."
So we have invented OnMyWay Commerce
to take all of the math and take all of the thinking
and take all of that stuff that you're doing on the phone
in your lap at 90 miles an hour away and get back to safety
and let your car do the simple things.
Find something quickly that you need,
help you get it purchased,
help you do it while you stay focused
on being safe and driving your car.
OnMyWay Commerce is about on route curation.
"Hey Audi, I'm hungry."
"Okay, Cynthia, your favorite cheeseburger
can be ready for you in 10 minutes.
Nine minutes down the road,
should I order it for you with your in-car wallet
and have it ready for you when you get there?
I'll tell them when you're three minutes away
so they can start the french fries,
and I'll tell them when you've pulled into the parking lot
so they can bring it out to you."
So again, you can focus on what you're doing,
the screaming kids and focus on the car in the road.
Curating all of those transactions together
and putting it together with the wallet
that's already in the car,
doing what we call Persistent Order Status.
Nobody wants to get off the highway to go pick up an order
that might not be there, that you're not sure
that's the reason you're getting off the highway.
So pulling that entire experience together
is what makes OnMyWay Commerce meaningful to consumers.
We're working with some of the largest car brands
in the world and you can see some installations here.
This was the Lamborghini that we're,
should be launching any day now with Volkswagen.
We're launching with Jeep Dodge Chrysler, Ram Volkswagen,
BMW Mercedes, working with a lot of other OEMs as well,
and we need to be able to bring all of our retailers
to all car companies,
so please come up and talk to us
about how we can get our restaurants into your cars as well.
We're starting with the order and pickup payments.
We have had a lot of people come to us and say,
"But I can't charge my car
or pick a place that I'm gonna charge my car
if I don't know what I'm going to do
when I am charging my car,
so help me pick charging and a food and dining occasion
at the same time."
So we're pulling through
a lot of those other experiences as well.
Of course, the reason that this makes sense now, in 2025,
when it didn't four years ago,
the last time people tried this
is that stores were 2% capable of pre-order before pandemic.
They're now 98%.
Consumers who were early adopters
placing orders and deliveries in 2019,
now you're a barbarian, if you think of going in the store
and standing in line and waiting to pay
and then waiting for your food.
No one wants to do that.
And all the CPG companies, advertisers are all
looking for ways to reach their customers differently.
I told you we're working
with some of the best car brands in the world already.
We're launching with about 100,000 restaurant locations
and expect to do
about a million location transactions this year.
Of course, since we're at CES, gonna tell you,
we have AI throughout our application menu,
understanding, voice enabling of menus,
how we process the orders through personalization,
et cetera, and we'd love to work with you.
Thank you.
<v ->Thank you so much, Cynthia, absolutely amazing.</v>
I know as a chubby kid, getting food on the way home
is definitely something I looked forward to every day.
Now we're gonna keep it rolling at the last,
but definitely not the least.
We now have Aditi Desai with Voltpost.
Voltpost is democratizing charging access.
Volpost retrofits lampposts
into modular electric vehicle charging platforms.
Please give her a round of applause everybody.
<v ->Hi everyone, how's it going?</v>
Thanks Logan for the warm introduction.
As Logan mentioned, I am our Director of Partnerships
and a founding team member at Voltpost.
We founded Voltpost with the mission to decarbonize mobility
by democratizing electric vehicle charging access,
and we plan on doing that
by making charging as ubiquitous as lampposts.
So the problem statement here,
I'm sure you're all very well aware of,
which is that the top EV adoption barrier for drivers
is a lack of convenient and accessible charging.
There are just 2% of cars on the road today in the US
that are electric,
but that number's increasing year over year
with new car sale, new EV sales being 9% just last year.
And with different climate targets,
it's very clear that we need to decarbonize quickly.
But there's a particular challenge,
especially in urban environments
where city drivers don't have a dedicated charging at home.
They're not able to charge in their garage.
And as you can see here in the picture of the left
of somebody charging from the second floor
of their Brooklyn brownstone in New York,
which I will say is a site
that you see more often than you would expect,
it's clear that charging
is currently scarce and inconvenient,
and so we're building the best solution
to meet those drivers' needs.
At Voltpost, we're retrofitting lampposts
into a modular electric vehicle charging platform.
By retrofitting the existing infrastructure,
we're able to cut down on the cost, timing,
and footprint of charger installation because we get rid
of that timely and costly construction and trenching.
Our modular design maximizes the chargers uptime
while keeping the O and M expenses as low as possible.
Our charging hardware has LED feedback, uses a smart meter,
and has an integrated cable management system.
So typically a lot of charging stations
will have the cable out and exposed,
which makes it vulnerable to vandalism, inclement weather.
It's also a trip hazard for drivers, bikers,
and pedestrians, and so inside of our charging module,
we have about 20 feet of cable,
where at the press of a button,
you can pull out as much cable as you need,
plug, put it into your car,
unplug, stick it back into the module,
and it sucks it in like a vacuum.
On the software side of things,
we have a custom mobile application
where you can surface Voltpost on a map,
manage the end-to-end charging session.
We're also pursuing an open charging distribution strategy
so that you can surface Voltpost on partner apps and maps,
and we have a dashboard on the backend
that can be used to track charging utilization data
and other insights
to benchmark and forecast future charging need.
One of the benefits of our modularity
is being able to future proof
and upgrade the product over time.
We see charging as an entry point to what is ultimately
an intelligent infrastructure platform
that goes beyond just our current offering,
which is the charging hardware, the software, the data,
and the O and M,
but we're exploring different sorts of verticals,
so think connectivity, right,
integrating things like 5G and Wi-Fi into the modules.
Just last year we announced a partnership with AT&amp;T
to do just that.
We're also looking at integrating things like sensors
related to air quality, curb management,
thinking about how can a network of chargers
be used as a distributed energy resource
in the case of, you know, grid outages,
and also looking at more traditional media
and advertisement verticals as well.
In terms of the traction of the company,
so we've done a couple of pilot projects in New York City
with the Department of Transportation there,
as well as Detroit through the state of Michigan.
And starting in just a few weeks,
we're gearing up to deploy the commercial product.
We have projects in New York, Michigan, California,
Illinois, Massachusetts, and Connecticut
with the public and private sector.
Voltpost was founded in 2021.
We're headquartered in New York, but our team is split up
between New York and San Francisco.
The founding team is former Samsung and Barclays
and has extensive experience
of bringing products from concept to commercialization
with over 50 patents under the team's belt collectively.
Some of our investors include RWE,
which is the largest German utility, as well as Exelon,
which is the largest utility here in the US,
alongside other mission aligned climate tech VCs.
We have a scalable hardware as a service business model
where we own and operate our charging network
and lease a turnkey offering,
which includes a charging hardware, the software,
the data, and the O and M.
Under our model, we're able to apply
different types of grants and non-diluted funding
to offset the project cost for the customer,
and we view electricity as a pass through to the utility.
Ultimately, we're building this out
as a mission driven company
with the goal of increasing public charging access
so that we can reduce carbon and air pollution.
We wanna put these chargers up
in communities that need them most,
and are especially excited
about the Green Workforce opportunity.
Our company was born in America and built coast to coast,
and we welcome you
to transform lampposts into Voltposts with us.
I will be at the COVESA networking reception later today
and would love to connect
if you're interested about learning more about Voltpost.
Thank you.
<v ->All right, thank you so much Aditi</v>
for closing us out here.
I do just want to take one moment to let everybody know
that we don't want the conversations to stop here.
We want to continue to grow with everybody in this room,
and we would love to open up these different conversations.
As each one of them mentioned,
we will all be at COVESA later tonight at the Bellagio.
We invite you all to come and join us.
It's gonna be all the way back in the convention center.
If you guys haven't already signed up,
please come and find us after.
We will gladly get you guys registered.
I want to give one more round of applause everybody
for the presenters,
as well as Chris Cook and the Connect2Car team.
Thank you all so much for being here
and I will turn it over to Chris to close you guys out.
Thank you.
I don't know where Chris is.
There he is, he's on his way up.
But one more time, thank you all so much.
<v ->Yeah, and I don't need to step up there to say goodbye.</v>
I think everybody can hear me
from pretty much anywhere I am.
I appreciate everybody hanging out with us
for the day for Connect2Car.
Logan, thank you so much for everything that you do
and I look forward to you being back next year.
All right, good.
And like the format too,
so I appreciate all of you taking the time.
The videos for these will be up on connect2car.tech,
usually in a week or two when we get 'em from CES.
The first presentation of the day,
Steve, when he did the, I say keynote lightly,
he will, that presentation's already up on the website,
so if you wanna download that, that's there for you.
Have a great safe CES and enjoy your trip back home
when you get a chance to, spend some time with your family,
and thank them for letting you stay out for a little while.