<v ->All right.</v>
Hello everyone and thank you so much for joining us today
and to our wonderful hosts at CES
for bringing this session together.
It is fantastic
to see digital therapeutics have such a moment at CES
and to be joined by some of the brightest
and most influential brains in the digital therapeutics
space as we delve deeper into this topic.
My name's Gemma Jennings.
I'm here from BBC studios
and I know that our panel
have a lot to contribute
to today's discussion.
And so I want to dive right in as we explore
how technology driven treatments
are transforming healthcare,
improving patient outcomes,
and redefining medicine.
So without further ado, allow me to welcome
each of our panelists.
First on the end there we have Edward Cox.
Ed is head and General Manager
of Digital Health and Medicines at Pfizer,
an innovative, inspiring,
and relentless digital health executive.
Ed has been committed to advancing the sector as it strives
for better patient outcomes, clinical results,
and commercial viability.
Prior to joining Pfizer,
he was executive vice president of Strategic Alliances
and head of Digital Medicines
at Eversana Life Science Services
and CEO at Dthera Sciences.
He is a member of the Leadership Council
at the CNS Summit
and a board member at the nonprofit
decentralized Trials and Research Alliance.
Welcome Ed.
We have Jeff Weness
joining us and he is head of digital investments
for Otsuka Precision Health.
Jeff leads early stage venture investments,
M&amp;A and strategic partnerships
covering investment areas
which include digital biomarkers,
precision and connected health solutions.
And before Otsuka, Jeff led
United Health Group's R &amp; D medical conditions
venture investment portfolio.
Jeff, welcome.
Next we have Sarah Hill.
Sarah is CEO of Healium,
an immersive media channel powered
by the body's electricity via fitness trackers.
Sarah is a former interactive TV news journalist
for NBC, ABC, CBS
and 12 time Mid-America Emmy award-winning storyteller.
And she's led successful media teams for the past 25 years.
Her company, Healium,
is rooted in the intersection of sentient
and spatial computing, AI and storytelling.
Their mental wellness products allow users
to see their feelings so that they can learn
to self-regulate stress, anxiety, and sleep.
Sarah, the world needs more of that.
Thank you for being here.
<v ->Hello everyone.</v>
<v ->Also joining us today is Dr. Patrick B. Thomas.</v>
Patrick is an award-winning pediatric surgeon
and CEO and founder of Surgeon Innovative Solutions,
transforming healthcare with AI,
robotics, extended reality and digital therapeutics.
As medical director of innovation at Children's Nebraska,
he spearheaded the state's first use
of virtual reality in pediatric surgery
and drives the development of virtual reality platforms,
3D modeling and digital solutions.
We are honored to have you with us, Patrick.
<v ->Grateful to be here.</v>
<v ->Fantastic.</v>
And I wanna start today from the very beginning,
and Ed, I'm hoping you can help me.
<v ->Sure.</v>
<v ->Please explain for our audience,</v>
what are digital therapeutics
and how are they different
from some of the more widely known digital health tools?
<v ->Yeah, it's a great question.</v>
I think the easiest way I've tried to explain this
over the years
is if you think
of the digital health ecosystem
almost like a galaxy
with a lot of planetary bodies moving in and out of it,
and there's a lot of overlap
and things like telehealth, clearly digital health,
things like virtual clinical trials,
clearly digital health,
things like healthcare IT,
and all of those in some ways
are the digitization of health.
Taking manual processes
and in some way making them more accessible digitally.
I think as you get a little more tighter
to digital medicine,
it's the digital thing is having a medical effect.
And then the most specific, it's digital therapeutics.
The digital thing is having a therapeutic effect.
And so I think, you know,
and not to make a controversial statement,
but I think most of us think
of digital therapeutics from the idea
that it is likely FDA regulated,
normally as a software, as a medical device.
It's likely through prescription or maybe prescription only,
and it is making a specific medical claim.
And that claim is in some way therapeutic.
And so that to me is the easiest way to think about it.
Not from an exclusatory standpoint, but just from a rubric.
<v ->Super helpful.</v>
Thank you for clearing that up.
And now that we know about the distinction, Sarah,
can you tell us what excites you
most about the digital therapeutics landscape?
<v ->Wearables, right?</v>
How many of you all have smart watches on your wrist,
Apple watch, Android watch, Samsung Galaxy Watch?
How about EEG headbands?
EEG meditation, headbands?
Yeah, some hands in the audience.
So what excites me is the ability to turn that data instead
of just tracking it, like we've done for decades,
is interacting with it.
Developing a relationship with your data
that you're not just,
not just a flat number
that's sequestered to your wrist anymore.
That it's spatial, it's sentient,
and it's set out into the world
and it's something that you can actually see
and learn to control.
So I love all of these wearables
that are coming out on the market
and the ability to create content with that wearables
that allows the user to learn to self-regulate
all of that biometric data from their heart rate,
to their brain patterns, to their blood pressure,
anything that captures data.
So very bullish on that as it relates
to not only digital therapeutics,
but also digiceuticals,
which is, you know, one layer below
digital therapeutics as it relates
to the regulatory landscape.
And I think, hand in hand, those digiceuticals
have a relationship inside digital therapeutics
as being that one step
before you get to the full blown therapeutic.
<v ->Right, absolutely.</v>
Data coming out of our ears, but what are we doing with it?
I love that.
And Patrick, I'd love to come
to the doctor in the room for your take from the front lines
of healthcare delivery.
How can digital therapeutics address unmet needs
in healthcare and what can they mean for your patients?
<v ->So I think when it comes to what are the unmet needs</v>
when you go into a hospital environment,
it can be a pretty scary place.
As a surgeon,
the work that I do pretty much prescriptive in the context
that you need a procedure, it's performed.
However, while that's the management of a surgical problem,
the art of medicine is where
the imagination needs to be released from my perspective.
And when it comes to patients
that are coming into the hospital, you know,
how do you take that trepidation and that fear
and how do you turn that into tranquility?
So I think the opportunity to interact
and use digital therapeutics is a way
to reach into the emotional state of the patients
and reach into the emotional state of the patients
and address, you know, their concerns and their needs.
So I think that when we look at digital therapeutics
and the utility of digital therapeutics
and the utility of them,
it's how are we designing those experiences
such that people can actually get the healthcare
that they need,
feel a sense of being seen,
but also feeling better,
and that they're healing better.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
And that holds a lot of promise,
but arguably digital health has held promise
for the last 20 years.
And Jeff, I wanna come to you
to give us your take on why the time is now
for digital therapeutics
and what is accelerating that value proposition.
<v ->Thanks, Gemma.</v>
I've been coming to CES on and off for 20 years
and this is a place
of tremendous optimism as I walk around
and I see all of these halls
of people working on solving problems.
And I think that's the why now.
We have tremendous energy around solving healthcare,
solving the problems of healthcare.
I think people have better tools today with AI
and a lot of the wearables
and access to data that they've,
better tools than they've ever had.
I was talking to a CEO last night who
of a digital therapeutics company
who over the weekend used AI to create a video
and do a campaign.
And he said, I got 10 physicians to sign on.
And he said, then I turned it over
to my marketing department on Monday
and told him to build a campaign.
He could have never done that 10 years
ago or five years ago.
He's learning in real time.
I think that's, I'm tremendously optimistic
about the potential for that.
The pandemic cracked the window in using digital
on a daily basis for people.
And I think there's also been some scarcity
in the market for capital.
I do investments
and that scarcity, capital scarcity,
has forced people to actually try business models
that may have, that have potential.
And so I've seen a lot of experimentation in this space.
And people aren't generally just working
on science projects right now.
They're working on things that have a business model
attached to them
are ideally will be fundable and scalable.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
And so many points there
that I wanna come back to.
But I wanna stay a a little bit on
that financial incentives piece.
You know, we've heard now
what digital therapeutics are, why they're exciting,
how they are impacting the healthcare space
and why we're seeing an acceleration
of the value proposition.
So let's dive a a little bit more
into that and Ed,
perhaps you can tell us what is it
that the industry is paying attention to in terms
of regulatory financial changes?
Something big happened 1st of January this year,
so maybe you can say a little bit about that as well.
<v ->Yeah, I think for those of us</v>
that have been in this industry for a long time,
I've been in digital therapeutics for about a decade now,
and going into 2025,
will probably be the year that we look back on
and say was the most transformational year within this.
And it's not because of technology
and it's not because of adoption
and it's not because of mindset, it's because of statutes.
Like, the thing is,
is that those of us who are in health,
the things that unlock things are statutory changes.
A really good example is continuous glucose monitoring.
No one ever doubted the science
of continuous glucose monitoring
or technologically how to do it.
But it was not reimbursable until 2016
and then it was put inside of a benefit category
and then there was a way to get it to patients.
So for those of you that don't know,
prior to about a month and a half ago,
digital therapeutics could not be
reimbursed through CMS.
There was no mechanism to do that,
because software as a medical device fell outside
of the benefit category.
And then because of a lot of advocacy,
and for those of you, if you're not already members of CTA,
you should be, they were amazing advocates.
They made a huge difference along with several other groups
to advocate to congress, to advocate to CMS,
to create what is now three new codes
that are directly reimbursing
digital mental health therapies
and digital mental health treatments,
which are digital therapeutics.
And to me that's the unlock,
because if the only way that we can build things
is build things for people that have expendable capital,
we're only gonna build things for people
that have expendable capital.
But that's not how health works.
Health works, we see a huge problem
and say, oh, let's go beat up that problem
and let's get it to those people that deserve it.
So the idea that this is the first step of permanent
and ruggedized reimbursement of digital therapeutics,
I think it's gonna change
the indications we go in totally.
And to me, I mean there was,
it was not always gonna happen.
It could have maybe never happened,
but then hundreds of people over a decade
pushed and pushed and pushed, and then it happened.
And I think between that and PDOs,
which we may come to in a later bit,
I think this catalyzing moment
that we're in is gonna be the year
that we saw the unlock of how digital therapeutics
actually get to patients.
<v ->Fantastic.</v>
And it is brilliant to see
that we are starting to see real financial incentives.
Jeff, I dunno if you wanna add more to that.
Why do we need these incentives?
<v ->I think there are a couple of reasons.</v>
One, behavior change is difficult
and adding financial incentives to the mix
for health systems,
potentially for patients and others are,
they can be an important
carrot in that behavior change.
And in getting something,
getting a digital therapeutic into an EMR
where it's surfaced to a physician at the appropriate time
for the appropriate patient.
I think that there are,
it's also very important from an investment standpoint
in that these new regulations give us some little bit
of predictability in revenue streams
when we're looking at companies.
And that's what investors are looking for.
We absolutely look for that.
We're also looking at not just being reliant
on those particular CMS codes,
but looking at direct to consumer models.
We've launched three products at Otsuka
in the last six months
that are all essentially direct to consumer.
One is prescription to or not.
So we're testing those models.
Our portfolio companies are testing those models
as well as reimbursement models.
But those financial incentives are a critical
part of the behavior change.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
And definitely of prominent importance.
But let's not forget they're not the only pull factor.
And you mentioned direct to consumer.
I wanna come to the point of the consumer
and Sarah for you to comment on that standpoint.
Do these changes have an impact
directly on consumer acceptance,
which is another big piece of this
and what are the trends that you are seeing emerging?
<v ->Yeah, absolutely.</v>
And certainly it does have an impact, right?
When your insurance company reimburses for that product
and is recommending that product.
It adds legitimacy, it adds trust that you're using it
and it also increases the likelihood that
you'll use it in the first place.
How many people do we have from Germany in the audience?
A few.
So it's really interesting
to watch their model,
not only what's happening in the US, but also, you know,
around the world with the proliferation
of these new codes.
And, you know, digital therapeutics,
you've always been able to reimburse for interventions
that happen in the provider's office
as a part of general therapy, right?
So it'll be interesting to see with these new codes
how much of an impact.
We know it'll have an impact
as it relates to the consumerism of healthcare
and the likelihood they'll use it
just from a cost, from a trust,
and an efficacy perspective as well.
<v ->Fantastic.</v>
And of course we can't talk about the why now
with considering the impact that the pandemic has had
and it was touched on lightly.
But Patrick, you know,
seismic shifts across the healthcare model.
Can you speak more to the impact of the pandemic
and how it paves the way for digital therapeutics?
<v ->So absolutely, absolutely.</v>
One of the things that I think the pandemic did
is it completely changed the relationship
of the patient with their providers.
All of a sudden you're in this environment where,
you know, people's lives are being lost
due to the unknown impact of this virus
and we're trying to track the impacts in real time
and that creates an accessibility issue.
You're just not able to jump into your car
and drive to your doctor's office.
You know, is that waiting area safe?
So I think one of the things
that the pandemic did was ushered in new ways to interact
with your clinicians and one was through Zoom
or telehealth or FaceTime.
I think we were really trying to figure out the best ways
to still see our doctors,
still get our prescriptions filled
and stay healthy at the same time.
So one of the benefits of digital, you know,
therapeutics is that now if a patient needs
to see their physician
and you have a wearable
that can sense your oxygen saturation
or you have a smart watch that can detect whether
or not you have an arrhythmia
or you have the ability to correct, you know,
other data that's needed by your physician.
'cause let's think about it.
When you go to your doctor, what does your doctor ask you?
What's going on?
What are your problems?
And then he goes into the objective part of the examination,
which is what are your vital signs?
So now that we have technology
that can reproduce those tech, you know, those vital signs
in a medium that's digital and then using telehealth
or using Zoom,
then now we're able to still preserve
that relationship with a physician being able to take care
of their patient in a meaningful way.
And while the pandemic disrupted community,
and that sense of community, you know,
these tools were enabling us
now to create new community ecosystems
where the doctor can not only still be a provider
and provider services that they need to,
but now they're using all these different digital tools
that are creating tons of data.
And now it's a matter of synthesizing that data to kind
of come up with creative ways
to treat diseases in a more meaningful way.
You mentioned the glucose monitoring.
So that's something
that's super important that, you know, you have that data,
but how is that data being presented to physicians?
So it's causing physicians now
and hospital teams to reimagine the ways
that we can take that data,
make it interpretable
and make it available to the patients.
<v ->Absolutely, I think the pandemic showed us</v>
that we can overcome a lot of barriers,
but there are still an awful lot of barriers to overcome.
And you know, we've heard about why now
is the time for digital therapeutics to scale.
We've heard about the reimbursement conditions,
but what are some of the challenges
that still persist in terms
of getting digital therapeutics covered
and how can they be overcome?
Jeff, perhaps you wanna comment?
<v ->Yeah.</v>
I think that the challenges,
the challenges today are really probably not
that much different
than they were six or eight years ago.
For a digital therapeutic to be adopted,
you have to have data that shows clinical impact
and you have to be able to show
the person who's gonna pay for it that there's an ROI
and that you can actually engage people
and that they will stay engaged in this to a meaningful end.
And I think that's a really,
that's challenging and it's what makes,
what makes the development of digital therapeutics
still really a difficult proposition that get,
you have to not only do the trial
to show clinical efficacy
and impact, which is, which may include going
through the FDA process,
but you also really need to gather enough data
to be able to go to a payer or an employer
and say that in a large population we were,
we can give you a four to one ROI
and that in a population of 10,000 people,
a thousand will complete this.
And you can see this kind of financial impact.
That's expensive.
The new coverage codes make it much,
make it a little bit easier
to project those as an investor.
AI gives you some tools that we haven't had before.
One of the things that we're dealing with right now
with a couple of our portfolio companies
and internally is that backend system
that unites the
potentially multiple digital therapeutics
is an area of opportunity.
So part of the reimbursement challenge
is that a lot of employers
and particularly employers, don't want a bunch of one-offs.
They want something that treats,
that deals with women's health issues
or mental health issues.
They don't want 20 solutions.
They want one that maybe has all of those.
So we're working with a bunch of our,
with our portfolio companies
and with some of our own products to try
and centralize these on a platform where we can maybe go
and say we have a women's health platform that can,
that can help,
help from the,
the prenatal stage all the way through
to perimenopause and menopause
and doing the same in mental health.
So I think that those platform approaches
will help with reimbursement also.
<v ->Fantastic, thank you.</v>
And Ed coming from a company like Pfizer,
does that resonate with you?
Are you exploring similar models
to overcome those sorts of challenges?
<v ->I mean yeah, for sure. I do think though</v>
and I can say this,
'cause he and I have been friends for a long time.
I'm a little bit probably more bullish.
And the reason for that is I do think there were some
permanent tectonic shifts that changed the board.
Like it's, you think about electric cars,
is like bunch of people tried in the seventies,
they all went bankrupt,
eighties been bankrupt, nineties went bankrupt.
Now the most valuable company in the world, right?
And so what happens is sometimes you're just too early
and sometimes these macro factors that have
to happen haven't happened yet.
And tragically, I think when we look back,
the thing that will have changed the board
for digital therapeutics was the pandemic
and the easiest stat in the world is percentage
of grandparents that could use zoom in 2020 versus today.
So that was like 0.07% to 70%.
I don't know how many orders of magnitude that is,
but that's a lot, right?
And the idea of telehealth visits,
like I'm not doing this over video,
I wanna see my doctor,
to I'm not going into a hospital.
Can he do it on or can he or she do it on video?
Like we're in a different world than we were in 2019
and most of it was not of our doing, right?
These were reactions to this meteor that struck the Earth
and this fallout shifted everything,
but technology adoption.
I mean we've got 6 billion smartphones for 8 billion people
and we're building smartphones at a much faster
rate than we're building people.
And so eventually we're gonna be able to get health
to almost everyone.
And that wasn't true even five years ago
and it definitely wasn't true 10 years ago.
And then the thing that we could influence,
the thing that Catherine and Renee
and members from CTA and DTA and AvMed and Otsuka
and lots of different companies pushed on,
is now there is a statutory way to do it.
So I think, you know, having been a CEO in the previous era
of digital therapeutics versus being a leader
in the digital therapeutic era now,
it is very much like,
I think there's a new world,
but we keep losing ships halfway
across the ocean to holy smoke,
'cause there's a new world.
And and I think that's exciting,
because we could have done this for another 20 years
and never got here, but we're here now.
And that to me is why it's an inspirational time
to be in this because the opportunity
for scale is almost like nothing else we've ever seen.
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
And that momentum has
to continue across all areas.
And I think we have a great panel here
that is representative of a lot of those areas.
And I would love to hear more about provider involvement.
Patrick, are there challenges that are unique
to digital therapeutics when it comes to provider adoption
and in the same way that there are, you know,
for things like remote patient monitoring products
and what are some of those?
<v ->Sure.</v>
Well I'll approach that
through three different lenses.
One, at the enterprise level,
the other at the provider level
and the other at the the patient level.
At the enterprise level, you have to have a hospital
that's committed or an organization that's committed
to innovation that is seeking different ways
to treat disease.
And I think if you have
or you're fortunate to be in a hospital system
where they embrace innovation,
they embrace technology,
then digital therapeutics
and virtual reality as a digital therapeutic
will not be a strange concept.
But then let's take it to the provider level.
I mean providers today
are being trained to take care of patients,
but they're not necessarily being trained
to use their imagination to create new products,
to take care of patients.
For example, you know, virtual reality
is definitely helpful for patients that have stress,
but what's the environment where that's deployed?
That's deployed in an environment where the providers
or the physicians have actually had some exposure
to the power of virtual reality as a digital therapeutic.
The first time that I used the therapy was in 2020
during the pandemic and it was on a young lady that came in
with an intestinal obstruction and she required surgery.
And so I performed the surgery laparoscopically,
had to resect some bowel,
but then afterwards the question was,
well how do we address the pain medic, you know,
her pain requirement needs
and I'm in a hospital that hasn't
used it as a digital therapeutic before.
The concept was foreign.
We used a virtual reality headset on the child.
She didn't require as much narcotics
as she did and she was up
and walking around the next day, you know,
in her room and before she left,
her family says that she had
to take a picture with me, again,
this is in the middle of the pandemic,
so I'm wearing a couple different masks
and she hugs me around my leg.
So what is the return on investment for that experience?
The return on investment
from that experience from my perspective
is the child did not require a lot of narcotics.
And we understand the power
of narcotics being out in the communities
and their impact when they don't,
when they're overprescribed.
But then also the smile
and the stress that was on the child's face
and on the parents' face when they recognized
that their child actually was better when they came in.
And when they left the hospital,
it wasn't a scary experience.
So I think the opportunity for other physicians
to understand the power of that is actually having
that personal experience.
One last story, my godsons have autism
and when they were going to their primary care visit,
their well-child visit,
they could never get the kids outta the car.
'Cause they would scream and they would yell
and they were crying and upset.
Fortunately they had a good physician
that would come out to the car,
did their examinations,
insert virtual reality as a digital therapeutic.
Now they're immersed in an environment where they're like,
you know, spraying animals and washing them, you know,
shooting bubbles that have colors
and now they're actually able
to complete their entire well-child visit in the office
and they're actually able to get their immunizations
and shots without any problems.
So once you expose that to the nurses
and the doctors that are in that environment,
that's where their return of investment
comes in as the buy-in.
And then from the consumer perspective,
when the consumers are out here using these immersive
products from virtual reality for, you know,
decreasing anxiety or just decreasing stress
or increasing fitness, well that is changing their,
you know, physiology and changing their biology
and changing their health.
And that in turn is gonna cause them to seek the providers
that are actually using this technology.
So if you're not using this technology as a provider,
your consumers are gonna become smart
as more and more digital therapeutics are available
and they're gonna seek those physicians
that actually understand how to use the data,
are willing to use the data
and can more importantly,
imagine different ways to manage health
with the data that they receive.
<v ->Absolutely, yeah.</v>
It's a real tide.
And Sarah, do you agree?
Are you seeing that that trend with consumers demanding?
<v ->Absolutely.</v>
You know, immersive media is just as effective
as a dose of hydromorphone,
dilaudid, a very powerful pain killer.
And when you can quickly interrupt the stress response,
that has a huge impact.
And as it relates to, you know, that consumerism of health
and reimbursement codes, you know,
there's programs not just here in the US
but also overseas, the DIGA, D-I-G-A,
I'd encourage you all to look into it,
that has some fascinating onboarding modalities
that places these digital therapeutics
in their real world
and also in the provider's hands, to discover them,
not only for pain,
but also for stress management as well.
And you know, certainly of the stories of, you know,
the transformative power with Healium,
we were giving an intervention to an individual
who had lost,
you know, conceivably lost the use of his hands.
He wasn't able to lift his hands above his head.
His provider told us that you'll have
to place the goggles on him,
because he's not able to physically do it himself.
But halfway through that experience,
you know, his arms were above his waist
and he was reaching out to the people that he saw, you know,
inside the goggles.
So powerful transformative tool
that's not necessarily meant to be a replacement
for psychotropic medication or professional counseling,
but certainly has great value in these areas.
And that hurdle is education,
not just for the patients,
but for the providers as well.
<v ->These stories are so important.</v>
Your godson, your patients.
Your consumers who's lives have been changed.
They show us how far we've come in just the last five years,
but there are still some ways to go.
And, Ed perhaps, I can come to you for your take on
what needs to happen in the next five to 10 years
to realize the potential
that we've been hearing about here today.
<v ->Yeah, I mean I think one of the great things</v>
that being an event like CES is it's full of innovators
and I think, this is gonna sound maybe trivial,
but it's meant to be the opposite is,
what's it gonna take is us caring,
is us actually making it happen.
Things don't just happen.
humans make them happen.
Like we don't have a cure for polio and then we do.
We don't know how to sail across the oceans and then we did.
Right?
And and I think it's one of those things that
if you think about the impact
of what happens if this is successful, right?
Of the 6 billion people that have smartphones
and the 8 billion people that are on planet,
all of them are more scared than they should be.
And all of them are more sad than they should be
and none of them are getting the best care that they could.
And the idea that a small group of us, like, I don't know,
there's 20,000, 30,000 people probably just in this hotel,
and you know, maybe a couple million people
in the group in the vicinity,
but you're still talking a fraction
of the human population to say,
I can actually push on this,
so that someday a billion people,
one out of every five,
one out every six smartphones is managing their health
with the supercomputer in their hand.
And and if you think about that,
the idea that you could be some small part
of either making a billion people live better
or live longer, that's how we do it.
And if you want like a very bolt, you know,
nuts and bolts answer, it's we should build more products.
We should take them to the FDA,
we should get them regulated.
We should launch them.
We should build more products.
We should take the them to consumers and employers
and match to those needs.
But the tech is here, the need has never been greater.
The pandemic has made the need greater.
But you know, it's like being burdened
with glorious purpose, right?
That's a really fun thing to be doing
and it's a really meaningful thing to be doing.
And I'll make this one point.
If you ever wanna understand the potential
of a digital therapeutic, explain it to a child.
'Cause they get it the very first time,
very first time, right?
So the stats that say only 2%
of adults are creative geniuses,
but 98% of children are,
that means that we've closed our minds off
to what's possible.
We did that, right?
But if you can explain to a child
how a friend on their phone will make them less scared
or a friend on on their phone will make them less sad
and it's a medicine that the doctor they really like
and they trust gave them,
and they get it the very first time you explain it,
that means there's an opportunity,
<v ->It's a fascinating perspective.</v>
And we have our marching orders
for the people in the room.
We need to make more products,
take them to the FDA.
I think before we come to some closing remarks,
I just really wanna focus in on that point
and I think we have some people that are biased
with me on stage.
We've been hearing a lot about children
and the next generation,
but where is the need
for digital therapeutics greatest?
What should we be prioritizing when it comes
to addressing the most critical and pressing unmet needs?
Patrick, perhaps you can take that.
<v ->Yeah, I'll start with one of my favorite quotes</v>
by, you know, Einstein
and that is "Imagination is more important than knowledge."
And that was a pretty smart dude.
And I'll also start out with saying, you know,
what's the first question that your provider
or your doctor should ask you when you come
in the, you know, for your visit?
You know, how can I help you?
And I think when you look at those two statements,
the next thing that we have to tackle is a responsibility
of creating meaningful products.
But I want to really emphasize that we have to design
meaningful products that have empathy built within them
that are actually listening to what the patients,
the customers need.
So while we're going out here
and we're creating new digital therapeutics,
we really need to be cognizant.
Are we really answering the question of how can I help you?
Are we really addressing the needs of the consumers
that that we're taking care of?
And I think the first thing you have
to do is you honestly have to actively listen
and actively design
and actively be bold enough to use your imagination.
And if you do those things,
then you will be contributing
to the art of healing and the art of medicine.
I think a lot of physicians want to go, again,
to not dealing with burnout, but burning out disease.
And I think that's a very powerful way to do it.
<v ->It's very hard to argue with Einstein.</v>
So thank you for that.
And thank you all for helping us to navigate this topic
so expertly from understanding
what digital therapeutics are,
why we should be excited right now in this moment
as an industry and as consumers and as patients.
But also thank you for helping us
keep our feet on the ground
and and focus on the task ahead.
We've heard that there are still a ways to go in terms
of the vital issues of reimbursement
and adoption and and trust.
And I would love to draw today's session to a close
with a reflection from each of you
and we'll go down the line in terms
of what you would like the audience
to take away from today's discussion.
One thing, please, Ed, we'll start with you.
<v ->Yeah, the thing I'd leave you with is I think the best way</v>
to think about digital therapeutics
and digital medicine is its empathy at scale.
And the reason I say that is there is nothing more personal
in our life than the supercomputer in our pocket, right?
All of us have 'em.
And I bet none of us use it the exact same way
and none of us have all the same apps.
And it's probably the first thing you look
at when you wake up. I mean, I try to look at my wife first,
but I probably look at my phone.
And it's definitely the last
thing I look at when I go to bed.
And so it is this incredibly, incredibly personal thing
that is with you all the time.
And yet, it is scaled on a level
that nothing else has scaled except books.
So something
that is an individual human experience has scaled
on a quantum that only books have.
And so to me the idea that you could be hyper-personalized,
hyper empathetic,
and meet that person in that exact moment,
not just 2:00 PM on a Tuesday, but 2:00 AM on a Tuesday.
I mean, the way I feel about all
of us in this industry is we are authors
in the era of Gutenberg.
Like something's happened
and now just a few people could read what we wrote
and now everyone can read what we wrote.
And that is a magical time to be alive.
And so that's what I want the audience to feel.
And for those of you in this industry,
all of us on this panel, I'm grateful,
'cause I have a little girl that's gonna live in the world
that we either build or don't build,
and I think we are gonna build it,
which is gonna be a better world.
<v ->Fantastic, absolutely a new frontier.</v>
Jeff, your one takeaway please.
<v ->It's hard to follow Ed.</v>
He's one of the OGs of this space
and it's an honor to be on stage with him
and sort of hearing his inspirational words here.
My one takeaway is, I think,
is if you're building digital therapeutics
and you're investing in digital therapeutics,
really focus on solving a problem that matters to patients.
And we launched a digital therapeutic at Otsuka
in the last six months
that is a prescription digital therapeutic
that treats depression.
And I had to explain it to my child
and I said,
it's something on your phone
that helps make you happy and my kid got it.
They said, well that makes a lot of sense.
And I think the more that we focus
on solving real problems for real people,
the better chance we have
of seeing that adoption
wave take over
and really make the phone in our pocket
the most powerful piece of healthcare
that we interact with on a daily basis.
And so I'm really optimistic.
Ed said he was more optim,
I'm very optimistic about the space
and hopeful that we'll see real impact
in everyone's life in the coming years.
<v ->Fantastic.</v>
And Sarah, your reflections,
<v ->Certainly this is the stress Olympics, right?</v>
And not all of us have trained for it.
But we do have some training tools, you know,
on our wrists and in headbands
and all of these wearables, even sensors,
that are coming from the camera that have the ability
to allow us to learn to not just track our data
but interact with it,
create content and develop a relationship with it,
not just for patients
but for caregivers as well.
So important.
You reduce stress among the caregivers,
you increase and you make them
make better management decisions.
You reduce the likelihood of heirs
and increase safety, reduce liability.
And so I think going forward, mental health, you know,
to me to answer your question,
is a paramount need, not only with the lack of therapists.
You know, there are 8 million children right now
out in the world that lack access to school counselors.
77% of counties
are in a mental health therapist shortage zone.
So we need to have some drugless,
non-harmful coping mechanisms for that stress Olympics.
And that starts not just with mental health interventions
and digital therapeutics,
but before that with the digiceuticals
and the mental fitness that is teaching you
to train your mind,
just as you would train your physical body.
And that begins with not just teaching people
how to calm down,
but actually allowing them to see their data,
see their own brain patterns and heart rate,
in near real time,
something personified
as a stress animal that they can learn to control.
And I think the more that consumers
as well as providers are educated about,
you know, the ability to see their feelings,
the easier it's going to be for them
to learn to self-regulate in this mental health emergency.
<v ->All of you have have talked about the next generation</v>
as being absolutely intrinsic
and embedded with digital therapeutics.
It's been a great through line through through all of this.
Patrick, if I can come to you for final remarks?
<v ->Yeah, sure.</v>
So I'll say this as a pediatric surgeon
and a clinical informaticist
and somebody that uses robotic technology
and virtual reality as a digital therapeutic.
The first thing, you know, we all have had a family member
that's been in the hospital, a child that's been sick,
a family member that we have to take care of,
or struggling with our own health issues,
and what is it that we really want?
I think at the end of the day,
no matter what product you design,
you want somebody to actually ask you, you know,
how can I help you?
And you want a tailored solution that can actually help you
deal with whatever health ailment
or issue that you're challenged with.
So I think digital therapeutics actually gives us
the opportunity, again, for all the designers, you know,
that are here.
Or if you don't have a designer on your team,
you should have a designer on your team.
'cause they will actually help you build products
effectively and efficiently,
because I think they ask the question, how can I help you?
What is it that you need?
And when we're trying to tackle this enormous problem
of like making healthcare, you know, meaningful
or making healthcare interpretable,
I think the power
of the imagination is what we really need to unleash.
So my final takeaway would be,
is as we're creating these products
that are gonna help change
the healthcare ecosystem and save lives,
don't be afraid to use your imagination
and don't be afraid to partner with other people
that can really drill down the question
of what do we really need to create
to generate the greatest impact.
<v ->Fantastic, thank you.</v>
Don't be afraid to use your imagination.
Well, I've learned a lot.
I hope that the audience have to,
I'd like to thank all of my panelists,
not just for their contribution to the discussion,
but to a really exciting industry.
Your fantastic work.
And I hope that you have a fantastic rest of your CES.
Thank you all.