<v Chris>This is our largest panel.</v>
So I'm gonna talk for 3.4 seconds,
but I wanted to introduce my friend and somebody,
again, we're celebrating our 25th year of Connect2Car,
and Suzanne, who is Vice President
of Advanced Mobility Payments System and Automation
and anything else you can get your hands into at AECOM.
So Suzanne was actually here for year two,
and we put on, when I was working at CTA at the time,
we put on the first V to V
or V to X demonstration right underneath this building,
which used to be a parking lot.
So think of that 24 years ago.
You're the only one that I've had that goes back that far.
Everybody else has left me.
So thanks for coming back.
<v Suzanne>Of course.</v>
<v Chris>And without me muttering up the panel,</v>
Suzanne, thank you so much.
<v ->All right, thank you, Chris.</v>
Okay, so I'm so excited about this panel,
and I'm so excited I brought a jury for you
because there's just so much to say.
So 2025 is gonna be the year.
We've been trying to figure out
how to do payments from vehicles since I've been working,
since I've been working.
So, and this was so exciting that so many people
had so many great things to talk about
that they're actually doing now.
And we're gonna see what's gonna happen in 2025.
By the time we get done this panel, you're gonna be shocked.
So our format's gonna be a little bit different,
because most people don't know
what's going on with vehicle payments.
Most people in the world don't know,
most people in our industries don't know.
So I'm gonna ask everybody here
to do maybe a three- to five-minute introduction
of themselves and what they're accomplishing in this field.
And then at the end,
we're going to do some really quick questions
about what's coming up.
Is that okay with everybody as an approach?
I thought that was good to do with so many people.
Okay, so first up is JJ, and have at it.
<v ->All right, I'll go up here.</v>
<v ->Perfect.</v>
You can go wherever you want,
if you wanna stand up or sit down.
It's all good.
<v ->Just do it this way.</v>
<v ->Perfect.</v>
<v ->So thanks everybody for coming.</v>
And you're probably wondering why
is a government agency even here, and why am I here?
Right?
So, you know, I've been doing in-vehicle payments
for over 50 years,
and automated in-vehicle payments for,
believe it or not, almost 40 years.
You know, we started the toll industry
with the organization I helped co-found called E-ZPass.
And if you look at E-ZPass as an in-vehicle payment system,
although it's only doing tolling, and now some parking
and some other things, you know, we're doing, we're one
of the top five of all payment processors in the country,
which is pretty impressive.
You know, we're doing over $10 billion annually in revenue,
and if you look at the rest of the country
and what they're doing and add that in,
it gets even bigger than that.
The other issues that we're starting to have,
if you do a SWAT on the toll industry right now,
you're gonna see some challenges coming ahead.
So the transponder, for instance,
there is currently a company looking
at taking that frequency band.
And when we started E-ZPass, we looked at it,
and basically, the E-ZPass transponder right now
that we used came from Los Alamos.
It was a technology transfer out of the military,
but when we started E-ZPass, it was this,
we weren't the first.
There was a system in Dallas,
they used a different technology,
and of course, when we started,
we thought we could do it better.
So we used something different, and then California
and others used different technologies,
and then Succeed came along, and it came different again.
So interoperability was a problem.
But now with connected vehicles coming along
and how interoperable the toll agencies have become due
to necessity and people not just traveling in one state,
you're starting to see, you know, the ability
to start moving into a more connected vehicle side.
In addition, when we started tolling,
we started it to move traffic.
We didn't care about the revenue, really,
it was just to move traffic.
That model has totally changed.
Now we're looking at it as a revenue source,
the way to pay for new roads.
You know, when I started in this business,
it was a million dollars a mile,
now it's 110 million a mile
for the road we opened this year.
So the transponder is a problem also.
And with our a hundred million customer database
that we have right now,
it's time to leap forward into vehicle payments.
In North Carolina alone,
we are looking at new technologies
and the way to open our APIs,
and we're actually looking at to do some pilots,
and to bring the industry together.
I'm still on the executive board of E-ZPass,
so I know it's going there.
I'm still on IBTTA working with them.
So, you know, we've piloted other technologies too.
We piloted that gasoline with Circle K,
we piloted McDonald's in fast food,
and we know the public wants it.
We know there's problems in the financial model
and bringing it together.
But it's all possible.
It's all possible, and Succeed,
it's starting to move forward at such a rapid rate
that the toll industry's
having even issues keeping up with it.
So I'm not saying there's not gonna be challenges,
but you know, we're hoping that within the next year
that we start seeing some active pilots within this country,
not only with us, with others.
The key is to have this open platform,
and not have, you know, frankly,
I'd like to get this whole process out of government
and into an open payment platform that,
you know, is commercialized.
So with that, Suzanne, I'll turn it back to you.
<v ->Awesome, JJ, did you mention,</v>
I don't know if, JJ, if you said it,
but he's the executive director
of North Carolina tolling authority,
and so we have, for the first time, I think,
in the room, government agencies
executing tolling transactions over the air,
and potentially disrupting the whole transponder industry
by doing payments from cars.
And I'm gonna introduce Cathi
and doing some of the same stuff.
Please go ahead.
<v ->Yes. Hi, I'm Cathi Chinn.</v>
I'm the Vice President of Innovation
and Connected Vehicle Services at Verra Mobility.
And Verra Mobility is a publicly traded company.
I've been in business about two decades,
and we've been serving transportation needs
for quite some time.
And what I mean by that is that we have serviced some
of the largest fleets in the fleet managed carriers
in the world.
And we provide title
and registration services, violation management services,
tolling managed services.
In fact, we're the largest
global tolling managed service provider.
And that's just one division.
That's commercial services in which I work in.
Verra Mobility also has two other divisions,
one in parking, T2 Systems,
servicing municipalities and universities.
And our government services,
which is your speed enforcement,
red light cameras, speed cameras, school bus safety,
I don't typically bring that up in social networks,
'cause once you start talking about the fact
that tickets are going out, you become really unpopular.
So I joined Verra Mobility about three years ago,
little over three years ago.
And so excited to do so.
I've been in transportation working
with connected vehicles telematics data predominantly
in safety and efficiency for over 20 years.
But coming to Verra Mobility, they were looking
for a really innovative shift in play
into the automotive market,
'cause it just makes sense, right?
And I think that we've all talked about that for a while.
We have a connected vehicle services platform
that we have developed in partnerships with tolling agencies
and automotive companies that we have had in play,
in pilot, for about two and a half years,
and just commercializing at the beginning of this year.
And because of my desperate need to just fit in,
I'm gonna run with the tolling theme here.
We have been piloting a lot
of different operational scenarios for tolling.
So obviously we're thinking about payments,
but also the complexities with tolling agencies
and the toll roads, whether it's an express lane
and you have to think about lane discrimination,
whether it's high occupancy discounts
and looking at passenger detection systems to determine
how many people are in the vehicle,
so you can appropriately rate that toll
and pay that toll in real time.
Also, congestion.
Equity is a really big thing when you think
about deploying toll roads in communities,
especially disadvantaged communities,
the impact that that can have.
So we've also been piloting different mechanisms
to identify equity and equity advantaged pricing.
And so we're super excited
to really continue with this platform.
In fact, we've had some amazing partners,
some sitting on this panel today,
who have helped us in this connected vehicle journey.
But it's definitely the time. The time is now.
I think that when I look at connected vehicles
and in-vehicle payments, it's really the same lifecycle,
I think, very similar that we went through
with mobile phones.
And so if you remember we had mobile phones,
we were afraid of smartphones for a while,
and then slowly but surely,
we begin to share more information like location data
and other information.
And we became comfortable with using the digital wallet
of the phone, and I see that same transition happening
in the vehicles.
And so I think there's a lot
that we can learn from that practice,
and certainly it's one way
to ease people into it of reminding them
that we've been through this before.
We went through it with the PCs,
we went through it through mobile phones.
I'm not familiar with the transition,
'cause I'm way too young for the PCs,
but my boss is in the audience,
and so he is very familiar.
<v Suzanne>Your boss for now.</v>
<v ->Yeah.</v>
My former boss (laughs) was there.
But, I mean, we've been through this before, right?
And so when we think about that bridge,
I think it'll be easier this time
than it has been in the past.
But it's certainly the same type
of requirements from a privacy perspective
is obviously a concern,
how we use that data, security authentication.
One of the things that I'll mention is Verra Mobility,
I mentioned that we service large fleets.
Well, we are the primary provider for rental car companies
as well with all of these different transactions.
And so there's this shared aspect of payments.
And so I think that's still one of the complexities
that we have to think through
and work on is that if you have a digital wallet associated
with your car,
and we start to move into shared environments,
how do you authenticate, right?
And not just from a rental car perspective and car share,
but think about other people that use your car.
There's new communities coming up where no cars are allowed,
and basically you have a shared pool of cars.
How do you think about managing the digital payments
along the user journey for road charges?
And when I think about road charges,
I'm thinking about parking, I think about fueling,
EV charging, tolling, road usage charge.
So a lot of complexities there,
but I think it's a very exciting time
to be a part of this transition.
<v ->I think it is too.</v>
And we're gonna move on down the value chain.
We talked a little about infrastructure and tolling.
We're gonna move to a little bit
of the other aspects of the payment.
<v ->Hi, my name is Cynthia Hollen,</v>
and I'm the CEO and founder of Mavi OnMyWay Commerce.
And I've been working in the e-commerce
and digital channels since the beginning of e-commerce.
And I agree with you, Cathi,
that payments have gotten in some ways easier
since we went from the, "Oh, I don't know if it's safe
to type my credit card number into this browser" thing,
to now feeling much more comfortable with that.
So it's gotten easier from that perspective,
but it's actually gotten harder
because payments has become a consumer service,
whereas it used to be a thing that I had to do
to buy a thing.
Now it's a thing all by itself.
We're putting, we're launching shopping from cars this week,
next week, I think,
so soon, you're gonna be able to buy an Audi,
"Hey Audi, I'm hungry."
"Okay, Cynthia, your favorite cheeseburger can be ready
for you in five minutes.
Do you want me to pay for it for you
because your credit card is already built
into the wallet of the car,
tell them that you're coming,
and by the way, would you like to have, you know,
points accumulated as part of that?"
This is what's happening, right?
I'm talking to consumers
and I'm telling them this amazing thing.
Your car is gonna be able
to make sure your French fries are crispy
for you when you arrive
and they're gonna be able to tell the delivery person
what parking space you're in.
You know what they ask me?
They say, "Oh, am I gonna be able
to get my loyalty points for that?"
"Oh, can I use Apple Pay for that?"
"Oh, am I gonna be able to have it identified from the,
how do I know that it's my husband's credit card
and not my credit card?"
So the expectation from consumers about all
of the sophistications of payments that they've come
to be part of their everyday world are now the thing
that's making payments more complicated.
It's how many different ways people want to be able to pay,
and we're really excited to bring that to people,
because the more, frankly the more ways they want
to give me their money in as many different places
as they are, we're building more and more pipes.
Those 72 minutes a day
that we're all trapped in a car right now
with not an easy way to spend more money is the playground
for all of us to collect in right now.
<v ->All right, thank you, Cynthia. John?</v>
<v ->Hi, my name is John Moon. I'm with 19Y Advisors.</v>
We kind of consult with clients on the automotive industry.
Prior to this, I was a managing director
at Honda Innovations working on in-vehicle payments.
I think it's been now almost 10 years
that I've actually worked on this.
Not quite as long as the toll folks down there, but-
<v Cynthia>Oh, the toll folks.</v>
<v ->I think in 2017 we showcased some work together</v>
with fuel pumps and parking meters,
and then in 2019, kind of showcased an entire platform.
I also worked more recently
with the in-vehicle payments special interest group
with COVESA, who's kind of a supporting sponsor
of this session and panel as well.
So I've kept in touch with a lot of the technology
and the partners and the players
and the OEMs within in-vehicle payments.
And I have to say we are seeing the most,
let's say signs of life in terms of a ecosystem
that's beginning to thrive.
You know, we have all of the parts and components.
I think what we'll see this year is actually a bit
of that organization that needs
to make that ecosystem actually something
that you deliver to clients and customers.
And I think we're gonna start seeing that ability
for the technology
to really now be in consumer's hands, or in their cars,
and you'll be able to start like actually seeing some
of these transactions.
I think there's an expectation
that this capability should be there,
and I think what you're starting to see is,
automakers are actually beginning to deploy technologies
that make it possible.
And some of that's connectivity, some of that's screen size,
some of that is actual like platforms, Android Automotive,
or CarPlay even.
So all of the ingredients are there,
we just need to bake the cake,
and hopefully that's what we start seeing here
in the next few years.
<v ->We're gonna see it this year.</v>
So we've done infrastructure,
we've done payment approaches or systems, payment systems,
and now we have the banks.
So Abdullah, if you could kick that off.
<v ->Sure.</v>
Hi, my name's Abdullah Pandit,
and I work at JP Morgan Payments.
So we talked about a lot of the use cases.
We talked about tolling, we talked about QSR,
we talked about parking here.
The underlying capability across all these use cases
is being able to make a payment for those,
and in a safe, frictionless, efficient manner,
whether that's through card payments
in certain jurisdictions and countries,
there's alternative payment methods as well like bank rail
for certain use cases might be better off.
So what we're looking to build at JP Morgan
is a vertical SaaS platform dedicated to mobility,
and we are working with a number
of partners in the ecosystem,
and we strongly believe that there is growth in this sector,
and I think I have spoken to most
of the people in this panel already,
and that's something we really wanna bring in,
and the fact we being working with a lot of these players,
whether those are auto OEMs,
whether those are energy majors or petrol majors,
we're trying to build this platform of life.
<v ->All right, Mo?</v>
<v ->Hello, my name is Mohamed Abouelenin,</v>
and I'm VP of product architecture
and social engineering at MasterCard.
Just a small like clarification,
we are a network of banks, not just one bank. (laughs)
<v Suzanne>Okay.</v>
<v ->So we have been working, and we've been privileged</v>
to be leading the payment innovation
for the last almost decade that touches the commerce
for digital and physical world,
and with a specific interest
and focus on connected vehicles,
'cause of what we just have heard from all the use cases.
That's very something very common we have heard
from Cathi, from JJ
that they are very keen on finding the best way
for interoperability for payment,
and this is exactly what we are working on.
So we have been working on with a bunch of partners,
as Abdullah mentioned, with a main goal,
and more actually focusing
on how can we bring all those partnerships in a way
that we can enable standard way to communicate
between the service providers and the credential providers?
So the payment becomes very secure,
seamless for the consumers,
and we can leverage all the great technology data points
that we have been seeing on the rise
from the authentication,
knowing that the how many actually passengers
in the vehicle, and how can we leverage this
in a very interoperable way based on a standard.
So when we look at MasterCard, those actually solutions,
we mainly focus on how first thing is how we make sure
that the transaction is seamless, frictionless, secure.
And then the second actually thing comes for us is the easy
for the user journey to load their credentials,
make sure that they are able to transact
from an open loop infrastructure,
that means they're banking cars.
They don't need to juggle multiple apps,
or multiple accounts, or QR code.
That simplifies a lot their user journey on the second side,
and the most important thing is we wanna make sure
when we talk about partnerships,
we meet our partners where they are.
We don't ask them to just implement
and live with the legacy solutions that have been there
for payments for like 20 or for 30 years.
We wanna make sure we co-innovate together, we hear them,
we make sure we take the extra miles that we need to take
to land where we need to land,
and we don't need to boil the ocean on the other side.
So we wanna make sure we start somewhere with what we have,
and make sure we don't compromise on the payment principles,
like secure, fast, seamless and and privacy by design.
But we also wanna make sure we start,
actually start meeting the demand from the customers,
as JJ was mentioning.
But last but not least, I would like to,
wanna focus on the fact that in order to achieve this,
we realized that we cannot do it alone.
We have to do it with a bunch of the right partners,
but also we wanted to build this infrastructure,
and build this standardization
for the infrastructure together with partners.
And this is where we actually were have been leading
with an EMVCo, which is the payment standardization body
that actually assures the interoperability.
This is how today, when you tap your phone
or your card on a terminal,
it doesn't actually matter whether it's a MasterCard
or Visa, Amex, because it's the same actually protocol used
to communicate between the device and the terminal.
This is what we mean for interoperable,
and this is what we exactly trying to bring here
for all connected vehicles use cases.
We are actually spending from tollways,
parking, EV charging, fuel,
we are covering all those use cases trying
to lead standardization with an EMVCo
so we can have the base
and foundation for all partners to innovate upon,
and scale the use case with other actually partners
within the ecosystem, and with that, back to you, Suzanne.
<v ->Yeah, that was amazing.</v>
By the way, everyone did that so precisely,
and we have 18 minutes left, so that's very exciting.
So when we think about the value chain of this transaction,
there's one group which is missing,
because we didn't have any more room
for more chairs up here.
I'm not even kidding, and that is the OEMs.
And so I'm gonna pose, you know,
the question that we talked about ahead of time,
which is I'm gonna ask all of you to talk
a little bit about maybe one
or two specific things that you're going to do in 2025,
because you know, I think maybe it's because I got
an actual vacation over Christmas,
and like for a few days I didn't leave the house,
but I came back feeling so fired up
and so excited about this year
that this is gonna be the year where it happens.
And so I'm hoping that all
of you guys could maybe talk a little bit
about one specific thing that you're doing this year
to make payment from the vehicles a reality,
and if you could incorporate maybe your work with the OEMs,
because they're not here, but I assure you,
and I assure you that they are deeply engaged in this,
and deeply involved with many members on our panel,
and independently working on this also.
So they're not left out of what we're working on here.
So if you wouldn't mind,
could you kick us off, JJ, and talk about that?
<v ->Sure, so this year, I am actually really excited,</v>
'cause North Carolina, as a business unit,
we'll call it like that, 'cause we're actually a business
within government, we're actually responsible for our own,
you know, P&amp;L and stuff like that.
So I don't believe in just doing things to do 'em,
and I don't believe
in doing 7 million white papers to get there.
So you know, we're the ones that came up
with the video enforcement system,
you know, out of North Carolina.
We actually piloted that originally,
and we were the first ones to do all electronic tolling too,
and take the toll booths out.
So you know, in anything, you have to prove the concept.
So this year, second quarter, hopefully, you know,
we're going to have a connected vehicle payment system,
end-to-end, to try to make that happen,
to prove the concept that it really works.
We're working with a couple car companies,
a couple of the payment providers,
and the ultimate goal is to come up with an open system
that will do not just tolling,
but the other things I talked about earlier, parking,
fast food, you know,
basically anything you could talk about,
car washes and things,
like open it up to the things you talked about
is ordering your, your French fries
and your hamburger, right?
And then getting points for it,
and making sure that it all comes together.
There's a lot to do to get there.
Tolling, as you know, has been kind
of a compartmentalized thing between agencies.
But you know, as I said,
I was there when we founded E-ZPass.
Nobody wanted to do it, right?
It was just seven agencies originally.
Now we're up to like 36, right?
We have 15 agencies partnered
with us on this connected vehicle pilot
that we're working on for payment currently.
We've come together on interoperability.
Now you can drive the whole East Coast,
and into Texas, and Colorado,
and others on the same transponders and our license plate.
So we're working together on making it happen,
and again it's not just North Carolina trying
to come up with a system for them.
We're trying to come up with an open payment system
and an open platform that will work for everybody.
My CTO Manish is in the audience,
and in reality, we'll probably go
through a couple different phases of this.
If anything, E-ZPass did too, right?
All electronic toll collection.
There's one agency that just went live
with it 35 years later.
So you know, it's gonna evolve.
This is a evolution, not a revolution.
But I think you brought up the cell phone.
I think that's a good analogy.
You know, probably not as fast as AI caught on to the,
you know, that's probably the first one now for expansion,
and cell phones were second,
but I think this is really gonna take off.
<v ->All right, Cathi.</v>
<v ->So I mentioned earlier</v>
that we have been piloting road usage charging
and tolling for about two and a half years.
And so in 2025 is our point of commercialization,
and so we're working
with multiple OEMs at different phases in the pipeline,
but it will be really exciting to see the work
and all of the lessons learned applied
for the commercial aspect this year.
The one thing that that I wanna mention I thought about
as you were talking, JJ,
is that it has been essential to have the right partners
in the room when you go about things like this.
And so, JJ, you were talking about your community,
and the tolling community,
and so for those of you who aren't aware,
there's a larger organization, IBTTA,
which is a collection of toll agencies
and industry experts that jump in fully ready
to move things forward.
And so I can tell you that without their help
and without their participation, without them allowing us
to use their toll roads
and the different scenarios that they have,
we wouldn't be as far along as we are today.
We wouldn't be ready for commercialization.
And so I see more of that in the future,
and I think that there's other organizations
in authoring bodies
that will probably dive a little bit deeper into
to get that type of support.
But our focus is commercialization
and learning from the consumer experience.
<v ->That's awesome. Thank you.</v>
So we have toll deployments, look for this year.
By this time next year,
we'll have several toll deployments.
Cynthia, I know you can't see the clock.
It's at 12 minutes.
You don't have the benefit of that.
So we have three minutes for, oh see,
look at how clever you are, thank you.
<v ->I am going to speak on behalf</v>
of what I call great big giant motorized shopping carts
on wheels, the OEMs.
We work closely with a lot
of these motorized shopping cart companies,
and in fact, we're invited into the industry four years ago
by several of them, who smartly said we've been trying
to put shopping, in-car shopping in vehicles for years,
and we finally figured out that we're car guys.
We actually need someone who understands retail
and understands consumers,
and understands payments to tell us what is it
that consumers want.
Or as I like to say, how can I take all
of your money in every place that you are?
Can you please retail experts, marketplace experts,
consumer experts, tell us what do we do
with this fabulous biggest interactive screen
in your household that is GPS-enabled
and tied to an in-car wallet,
and actually provide an experience
that consumers care about?
And we know that it's tolling, and we know that it's fuel,
and we know that it's parking
and we think that it's these other things.
Can you tell us what that means?
So I think that's great
that the OEMs are thinking about ways
that this consumer electronic device can become a real part
of my world other than a piece of transportation.
And they are all out there thinking about it.
In terms of commercialization, as I mentioned,
we are actually rolling out into millions of vehicles
with in-car commerce in the next weeks,
in the next days, I think, certainly up
to about 15 million vehicles in the United States this year
across about four or five different OEMs.
And the technology partnerships, as Cathi mentioned,
are critical to making that happen,
not just in the car world, but in the retail world.
How do you partner with Walmart?
How do you partner with Oracle, and NCR,
and all of these players, because the cars are a screen,
the retail coming from the world of retail, I'm biased,
the retail is what's really out there,
and this is another channel for us to sell more things.
If you wanna see an example of some of the great technology
that's being being put in place, JP Morgan, and Mavi,
and Qualcomm have a demo right downstairs
where you can see a combined using the bio identity
to recognize a person figuring out which payment device
to use based on that camera.
So the valet isn't stealing your car and going out
and buying a burger on, you know,
on joyriding with your burgers.
And then Mavi, of course,
is processing the transaction and putting that through.
So the problem has been solved.
What we've all been trying to think about making happen
for 10 years, it's here now.
So shop a lot from your cars.
<v ->And to Cynthia's point, the technology,</v>
and what I said before,
the ecosystem's kind of primed and ready.
I worked with Mohamed's group before, five years ago,
and the technology, payments technology,
was there and available then.
It's available now.
But again, I think there are many components
to the ecosystem that need to mature,
and I think you're starting to see that maturity.
To take a transportation analogy,
I don't think it's gonna be a bang.
I think it's gonna be like a train leaving the station.
More people will get on board, you'll see more
and more implementations, you'll see more success,
and that will build on itself.
So I think it'll be more like a train, less of a bang,
and that's kind of looking at a variety
of the different OEMs that I work with through partners
and a variety of other partners that we advise
or clients that we advise.
But yeah, I think you'll start to see more
and more of it this year.
<v ->So I wanna sort of...</v>
Hi, so I wanna touch upon some of the stuff that John said
and Cynthia said earlier.
So payments has been around for a while.
Vehicle is just a different form factor.
You've had mobile phones.
Before that, you had desktops.
Before that, you had physical form factors, physical cards.
What makes payments from automotive or vehicles unique
is the identity and authentication piece
because is very different
from how it's done in other form factors.
And I think that's something which
was something we wanna focus on solving this year.
And that's something, as Cynthia mentioned downstairs,
you can go to the Qualcomm booth.
We've done it with Qualcomm where we're showcasing
how the payment credentials tie to the biometric facial ID
of the individual can be used to perform a payment.
And I think that's one
of the things we've really pushed this year.
We are already working with a number of automotives
across Europe and North America,
and that's something we wanna sort
of bring out over the course of the year.
<v ->Thank you, so I will start by saying</v>
that we're gonna actually make
all your wishes happen for 2025.
We're gonna build the all the rail for this to make happen.
Yeah, late Santa Claus
So let's start by maybe actually how we closed 2024.
So we have been able by means of engagement
with like great partners in the OEM industry, from OEM side,
from service provider side, from service integrators side,
to be able to build lots
of the infrastructure needed for car commerce to happen.
And with one big actually milestone happened,
end of last year, that when one of the major OEMs,
I wish we can actually disclose the name,
we have been able
to run the first open loop payment transaction
for EV charging session using an actually production vehicle
with zero modifications on the vehicle,
and small modifications on production charger.
That was actually a great achievement,
because it built and allowed us to build a foundation
that's gonna enable lots of those interoperability
that we have been talking about
and facilitate more
from what we have been actually discussing today
from use case perspective.
And what we are looking for in 2025
is run actually at this couple of pilots
for a couple of use cases toll agencies,
and EV charging is gonna be on top of them
to demonstrate actually how the standard's gonna help scale
those use cases with different industry stakeholders.
Thank you.
<v ->Wow. That was great.</v>
We did that with five minutes left.
Does anybody in the audience have any questions?
I know we're not set up to do that, but I can come down and,
Oh, go ahead. Let me come down.
All right.
<v Audience Member>So I think I heard you say you guys</v>
are piloting some in-vehicle payment scenarios
with EV charging.
<v ->That's right.</v>
<v ->Okay, 'cause I know a lot of times,</v>
there are challenges when individuals
are using their apps to charge,
and there's always issues, and so definitely like the toll
and all the other activities, 'cause those are real.
But you know, in order to drive EV demand
and getting people more comfortable, just seeing more pilots
around in-vehicle payments for charging
just to make that seamless.
<v ->I love the question.</v>
That's exactly what we have been actually busy doing
for the whole last year,
and for exact addressing your concern,
and as we said from the second actually pillar
within MasterCard, how we look at those things.
We wanna make sure that users have the freedom
to choose whatever actually payment method they wanna have
without actually being forced
to have specific apps, creating an account,
private label cards.
They wanna actually make a transaction,
this should be truly
what is called in the EV charging industry plug and charge.
That's what we are standardizing and going after
to be more specific about EV charging open
to payment standardization.
This is exactly what we're piloting.
But of course,
because it's a very well established industry,
as you know, with some sort of legacy,
we have been trying to find the right
and the best solution that actually,
that does not actually necessarily disrupt
the existing infrastructure from the OEM side
or the charging side,
but it just provide the minimum requirements
that allows for payment to run securely and seamlessly,
and address exactly your concern for the end consumers.
<v ->And I think JJ wanted to add to that.</v>
<v ->Yeah, I think, you know,</v>
the whole electric vehicle concept that came along,
I own one, and I own a hybrid also,
has really pushed technology and vehicle, you know,
10,000%, and as far as payment,
you know, every time I go
to charge away from my house, you know,
it's an issue whether you're using whoever's or whatever.
So I think that's a driver
for this technology going forward, and in my industry,
in tolling it's the business model too, right?
So again, I said it before
that originally we were designed to move traffic.
Right now we're looking at revenue in order to build,
you know, $110 million a mile roadways.
The current business model we have does not sustain that.
You know, we kind of inserted ourself
as the middleman in the whole transaction
where you don't really need that.
I equate it to like,
you should be like buying a shovel
at Home Depot or wherever.
You go, you buy the shovel, you paid,
you make the payment, and you're out, right?
You accumulate the points or whatever.
You know, we have other issues.
And two, I mentioned the transponder, out-of-state payments.
You know, there's, you hear it in local news
and all over the time, all over the place
is that connecting across state lines is a problem.
You know, in state we could hold your registration,
we could do things like that, but out of state,
we're accumulating hundreds of millions
of dollars worth of uncollectible debt, right?
So it's an unsustainable model that we have
to look at going forward.
And in any transition, as I said before,
when we did E-ZPass,
it wasn't easy to put it that way, right?
And the technology was the easy part,
and we had, when we went into it,
we thought that would definitely be the hard part.
It wasn't.
It was the how do we handle the transactions,
when are the payments being made?
All that stuff that, you know, we didn't think about,
that we know about now.
So I think now is the time, it's a time in our industry
who holds, you know, hundreds of millions of dollars,
billions of dollars worth of transactions,
and billions of transactions every day,
that it's time now to move forward,
and you know, eventually, tolling's not gonna be the dog.
We'll probably be a flea on that dog
because the size of the rest of the parking,
and everything is bigger.
But I think we're available for a launch.
You know, we're the ones that are here now.
We're the ones that have been doing it for, you know,
and we have the customer base,
so people are used to paying us.
So anyway, I think this is a great time to move forward
with connective vehicle payment,
and if we don't do it now, it's gonna be a long time.
<v Suzanne>And we have 30 seconds left.</v>
I have one more question also.
Thanks. Oh, is it, Roger? (laughs)
Do you guys know him?
<v Roger>Who knows me? Nobody.</v>
Cathi, I got here a little late.
I'm wondering, have you talked about the kind
of run rate annualized
that Verra is processing on connected cars?
<v ->I could talk about,</v>
publicly, I can talk about transactions,
and just on the tolling side alone,
we process over 300 million transactions a year.
And so obviously that grows once we move into
and commercialize with the OEMs.
In fact, we're JJ's largest customer.
In fact, almost every toll agency,
we're their largest customers,
because we actually hold the toll liability,
and put the capital up to secure those transactions.
<v ->All right. And we're out of time.</v>
Also check out in ground dynamic charging.
This is something that we're working into at AECOM.
So the roads will be equipped with equipment
to charge vehicles as they go by.
And so we'll be looking at how to do payments for that too.
All right, we'll answer questions privately after this,
'cause our time is up.
Thank you, everybody.
<v ->Thank you, everybody.