<v ->Please welcome the President</v>
of the Consumer Technology Association, Kinsey Fabrizio.
<v ->Welcome to CES 2025.</v>
Transportation plays an important role in all of our lives,
but it's not just about getting from point A to point B.
Transportation is what connects us.
It's how we reach new destinations and build new skylines.
And as the world accelerates
towards a smarter, greener future,
transportation can help us get there.
That's thanks to the leadership of companies
like Volvo Group,
which has been pushing boundaries in transportation
and infrastructure for nearly 100 years.
Volvo is setting the benchmark in electrification,
automation and connectivity, and transforming how people
and goods move across the world.
Volvo's investments aren't just moving technology forward,
they're also making mobility more secure with innovations
from the world's first three point safety belt
to cutting edge autonomous safety features
like adaptive cruises control.
Under Volvo President and CEO Martin Lundstedt,
Volvo also succeeds thanks to its dynamic partnerships
and collaboration across industries.
And as Martin likes to say,
"Partnership is the new leadership."
I love that.
And Volvo's partnerships have made the company
bold, innovative, and inclusive.
Over nearly a decade leading Volvo,
Martin has advanced ambitious innovation roadmaps
alongside a commitment to sustainability
and decarbonization that meets society's need for cleaner,
smarter, and more efficient transportation systems.
Today, Martin will share his vision for innovation
that's redefining the future of sustainable mobility
and technology and improving lives of people
across the globe.
I am so excited for this keynote,
so please join me in welcoming
Volvo Group's CEO, Martin Lundstedt.
<v ->Thank you, Kinsey,</v>
Thank you very much. Thank you for having us.
Good morning, CES.
<v Audience>Morning.</v>
<v ->Good morning CES lovers.</v>
<v Audience>Good morning.</v>
<v ->And welcome also to everyone watching online,</v>
customers and business partners
and family and friends around the globe.
It's just fantastic to see so many of you here today,
so many that are inspired by technology and innovation
and how that can be leveraged to build a better tomorrow.
And it's great for us also to be here in the United States
where we have such a long and strong history.
Volvo trucks has been present here
for more than four decades,
and another of our iconic brands, Mack trucks,
who literally built the United States,
is turning 125 years this year.
Isn't that fantastic, right?
And I can tell you
that there will be great news coming along this year
for Mack trucks.
And we are investing more than ever in the United States.
Over the last years, we have invested billions of dollars
in our industrial footprint,
but also in cutting edge new technology
by and for our customers and colleagues
and North American ecosystem.
We are one of the largest producers of trucks
or buses of construction equipment, of drive trains,
propulsion systems in the world.
And why are we here at the CES?
Because you might not think about it all that much,
but transport and logistics
is what makes modern life possible.
And at the Volvo Group, we are using technology to innovate
and transform the very foundation
of the transportation industry.
And with our scale,
what we do has a major impact across the globe.
And the current transport and logistics transformation
is about shaping the world we want to live in
and also for future generations.
So friends, let's have a look at who we really are.
Get started.
♪ Oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ Oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ When all seems lost ♪
♪ Just look inside ♪
♪ And you'll find ♪
♪ Who you're meant to be, hey ♪
♪ Unstoppable ♪
<v ->But what if?</v>
But what if we were not here?
Then society would rapidly shut down.
Hospitals would lack medical equipment
and grocery stores would be street bare,
garbage would be piled outside your and my home.
That is how important transport
and logistics is for society, for business and for people.
It is literally the lifeblood that drives prosperity
and that's why we work tirelessly to keep the lights on.
Thriving societies are built on transport
and infrastructure solutions.
Take United States as an example,
more than 70% of all goods used in our daily lives
from food to manufactured goods are transported
to our stores, to plants and to our homes by trucks.
Transport is not just about moving people
or goods from one place to another,
it binds us together, fuels our economy
and enriches our life and in society in countless ways.
And the demand for transport is growing,
driven by trends like growing middle class, e-commerce,
mass customization, urbanization.
As a matter of fact, freight volumes are expected
to grow by five times
between 2010 and 2050.
The wealth creation is the key driver to why logistics,
transport and infrastructure development
exists in the first place.
The rule is as simple as it is important,
the more advanced logistics a country
or a region has, the higher GDP per capita.
It is a straight line.
But with transport comes also negative side effects
such as climate impact,
pollution, congestion, noise.
We have improved those a lot over the last many years,
but there is still a lot to continue to address.
The transformation to a fossil-free
and a safe transport system is happening to turn
the red side effects into green opportunities
and it will be a bumpy road.
It'll take some time, but it'll happen.
It'll happen because everyone that is involved,
it makes sense for them.
And because so many companies and societies
across the globe really want to see those changes.
The transformation will lead
to new level of prosperity and sustainability for real.
And the companies and people
that can make it happen will get rewarded.
They will get rewarded with high levels of growth.
To us in the Volvo group,
driving prosperity is about providing solutions
that make modern life work here and now,
while at the same time tirelessly
to improve solutions
and deliver new ones to shape also the world
that we want to live in tomorrow.
Emissions from supply and distribution chains
account for almost 87% of big companies emissions.
Because of this, companies must work
with partners they trust to address their carbon footprint.
And that is where companies like us, where we come in,
by being first movers leading the tech shift
and creating advanced value chains,
we can help our customers address this
transformation step by step.
However, creating the complete ecosystem
for fossil-free transport is not something
that any one company can do alone.
We need to partner up.
Big companies and startups,
government and private sector,
truck producers and transport companies,
transport buyers and consumers of goods.
Including all of you in this room,
all of you watching online,
partnership is truly the new leadership.
And it sounds great, right?
But how do we get there in reality?
Well, we have an equation
of the adoption of fossil-free solutions,
an equation where all the variables play a vital role
to make this transformation happen.
And if you remember your multiplication in school math,
you will know that if any one of these parameters
or variables is zero,
the outcome will be zero.
But unlike your school math,
that zero result will have major repercussions globally.
So let's start with our first parameter,
availability of products.
And we have already accumulated hundreds of millions
of miles of experience with zero emission technology.
Our CTO, Lars Stenqvist,
will soon provide a detailed overview.
And Volvo Group is fully committed
to achieving net zero emissions by 2040.
We have successfully launched battery powered trucks,
dumps, haulers, excavators, buses, boats
across Europe, across North America, United States,
and many other regions.
And I'm proud to say that we lead in this field,
holding half of the e-truck market in North America
and an impressive 70% in Europe.
And I can tell you when you talk to both truck drivers,
fleet owners, and anyone in
and around the trucking industry,
once you've made the shift, you don't want to go back.
The red side effects are turning into green opportunities.
We also aim to grow in services
to support this transition, obviously.
Pioneering artificial intelligence connectivity
as part of the twin transformation.
We have almost 2 million connected assets
that we can leverage together with our customers
and other partners in the value chain.
So we are on the cutting edge here.
Cost is another crucial factor.
And when we talk about cost,
it is important to remind ourself that a truck
or a articulated hauler is not a big car,
it is a piece of production equipment.
And for our customers to switch to fossil-free alternatives,
clean transportation tech
must be profitable and cost competitive.
Robust policies are needed to bridge the gap,
not at least in the startup
between a diesel and an electric truck.
We need a combination of incentives
and initiatives to encourage and accelerate green adoption
and clean adoption.
So what's next? Infrastructure of course.
To go electric, we need charging infrastructure
for heavy vehicles, but building it takes time.
In Europe, we need 40,000 fast charging stations by 2030,
but currently we only have 500.
We need continue to invest.
Infrastructure investment and smart policy
are lagging behind.
We need to work together.
We need grid modernization and institutional reform.
In the United States, it can take one to two years
to secure permits for charging stations.
Three to five years to upgrade distribution
and 10 to 20 years to build substations.
The time to act was yesterday as we know,
but now we must move faster than ever.
And when we have energy in place,
let's make it green together and clean.
Green energy production needs to increase
and clean energy production needs to increase
and it must be predictable.
Currently, clean energy, when available,
is the lowest cost energy source of all.
That's good news.
And that is why we have secured
long-term renewable contracts for all our operations.
And for example, in Sweden with the Swedish utility company,
Vattenfall, for all Swedish operations.
So this transition is about much more than transportation.
The world simply must have more clean energy sources
across the board.
The loss of our variable is a massive network
of coordinated players along and across the value chains.
Andrea Fuder, our Chief Purchasing Officer,
will be on a bit later
and I'm sure you will be impressed with the sheer scale
of this supply chain.
That supply chain and many are represented here today,
delivers magic, but it must evolve
to take up net zero emissions.
Everything from processing and refining raw materials
to production of batteries and electric drive trains.
And what is more, going green and clean should be profitable
for everyone in the value chain and it must happen quickly.
So my math lesson is almost done.
And if you be keeping track, I've shown you
five variables that will determine the speed of adoption.
This transformation will likely follow the rhythm
of the hype cycle.
We have had the technology triggers,
we know that many of them and most of them are working.
And we have passed the peak of inflated expectations.
Now we are somewhere in the trough of dissolution math.
But yet, friends,
this is not the end, it's the turning point.
Because history shows that this stage
is where strategies are refined,
resilience is tested
and the foundation for success are built.
Because the right tech solutions will eventually win.
And soon momentum will accelerate again
and those prepared will lead the way forward.
And when it turns, the winners will be the companies
that have the right products and solutions
and the ability and speed to adapt.
But ultimately, and most importantly,
the winners will be those with the right people, and why?
Because in the end it's all about people,
their expertise, the commitment,
and the trust we put into colleagues and partners.
In times of change,
trust becomes the ultimate human currency.
At Volvo, trust isn't just the value,
it's the foundation of how we operate.
And that's why we have always placed our people
at the heart of everything we do.
And as many of you know, when thinking about Volvo
and closing your eyes,
that's the reason why safety has always been
one of our core values since inception.
I'm proud that Volvo Group has led this transformation
from the start.
Confidence innovation is in our people's DNA,
and it's also part of our heritage as a Swedish company.
And part of the reason our country
has such a strong position in innovation is due to the focus
and investment we put on technology and climate.
And with this in mind, I would like to introduce you
to a someone who is a unique example
of the Swedish passion of innovation and collaboration.
That type of collaboration
between private and public sectors
that as a country we have championed.
So up next, we are honored to be joined
by our Minister for Energy, Business and Industry,
our deputy prime Minister for Sweden, Ebba Busch.
But first to introduce our minister,
a snapshot of Swedish innovation.
<v ->Ladies and gentlemen, visitors of Vegas,</v>
nerds and lovers of tech,
I'm here to talk about three things,
innovation, values and hope for the next generation.
And how these three things
drives wealth and welfare.
Sweden is a land of science and engineering.
We are home to the Nobel Prize.
We have a unique love for innovation and collaboration.
And I would say that with hard work and curiosity,
we keep on reinventing ourselves.
But how did we get here and where are we headed?
Well, in the mid 1800s, Sweden was actually,
we were the poorest country in Europe,
defined by cold, by starvation and hopelessness.
A situation that led 1 million Swedes
to leave for the US,
but hope arose through groundbreaking innovations,
brilliant engineers and tireless efforts
by hardworking people.
And they drove economic growth
and laid the foundation for an engineering tradition
that defines Sweden's identity today.
From the dynamite to today's fossil-free industries,
technological development drives our prosperity.
But today we face
a somewhat similar challenge.
Many young people lack hope.
And as a mother of two children of my own,
I can see that so many parents now worry
that their children may not experience
better living conditions than they had themselves.
Can you imagine what that does to a whole generation?
The two key ingredients to Sweden's success,
hard work and curiosity are now in danger.
and of course, I mean, fear can drive action,
but too much fear leads to hopelessness,
it leads to paralysis
and political decisions lately rooted in
quite a lot of fear for climate change, war or pandemics
that hinders next generation to believe
and pursue these values.
Yet there is so much hope.
New technologies offer incredible possibilities.
And here I would actually like to make a direct appeal
to you all sitting here in this room
or listening online now.
As business leaders, as mothers, as fathers,
as policymakers, well as fellow citizens,
you, I, we all have a great responsibility
to instill the values of hard work
and curiosity in the next generation.
Do not underestimate the power of what we model
as admirable and worth striving for.
Like our ancestors, we can transform fear into hope
and build a more prosperous tomorrow.
Sweden, I would say is quite uniquely positioned
for what is to come.
We are truly creating the Swedish dream.
Our companies have a global outlook
and they are indispensable
in the new technological value chains that are emerging.
And mobility obviously is a key strength for us,
a field where we integrate different technologies
into quite complex system.
But this does not only include trucks and buses,
we make our own fire jets and submarines too.
And we believe in communication,
companies like Ericsson truly connect the world.
We excel in clean technologies,
leading the fossil-free transition,
including green steel production
and all this powered by an electricity system
that is 98% fossil-free.
Our companies are climate heroes.
We have amazing natural resources including metals
and rare earth metals
that are essential parts of new technology.
And we're a space nation too.
So if you want to launch rockets in the EU,
anybody in here got any plans on that?
Well, if you have those plans,
you have to go to the northern part of Sweden to Esrange.
And I gladly welcome you myself.
For 16 years, Sweden has consistently ranked
among the top three most innovative countries in the world.
We are number two in patent applications per capita,
ranked as third best country in the world
according to US news,
and second in WIPO's world's most innovative economy
and first in quality of life index.
Stockholm producing the most unicorns per capita
after Silicon Valley.
You might think this is bragging,
but I learned from an American yesterday
that if it's facts, it's not bragging.
On December 10th, Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson
and James A. Robinson,
received the Nobel Prize in Stockholm.
And their research shows
just how strong institutions promote long-term growth.
And Sweden, well, this principle is very evident.
We're a democracy with robust institutions,
political stability and high levels of trust among people,
businesses, and government.
And I would say that this fosters a safe investment climate
and strong returns, if anyone is interested in that.
Swedes embrace new technologies early
and we make the world both sting and dance and play
and look good from "ABBA" to "Avicii",
from Minecraft to Candy Crush and from H&amp;M to Fjallraven.
Swedish companies are experts at turning technology
into complex systems and solutions.
International collaboration with like-minded nations
is essential, particularly in a world
where geopolitics increasingly shapes technology.
So finally, ladies and gentlemen,
I welcome you to be part of team Sweden
where hard work and curiosity turns poverty to prosperity
and hopelessness to hope for the next generation.
So join Sweden, we're open for business. Thank you.
<v ->Wow, thank you very much indeed, Ebba.</v>
And we need shared goals, solid roadmaps,
and we need to take action.
And for us as a company,
that means taking action even at the time
when we do not know exactly how the shift
from the fossil-based to a fossil-free platform
will play out in time and across regions.
And that is why we are developing
three parallel tracks of technology
for fossil-free transport, battery electric,
it's about hydrogen powered fuel cell electric
and combustion technology with renewable fuels.
It is a massive undertaking
and a once in a lifetime challenge.
But I'm so proud that we have some of the best
and most passionate engineers in the world
working on it.
And talking about engineers,
the one heading up our technology, innovations,
and groundbreaking concept
that are shaping the future of transport
is our own master of take, so please welcome
Lars Stenqvist, the CTO of the Volvo Group.
<v ->Thank you, Martin.</v>
And hello, everyone.
It's great to be here with you today at CES.
You ever heard Morton talk about driving prosperity,
enabling our customers to create value to society
here and now while at the same time
developing the solutions of tomorrow?
And that's all about innovation.
I'm here to show you how we turn ideas into reality,
how we use innovation to shape the world we want to live in.
We are on a transformation journey
and where we are going, our trucks, buses,
and construction equipment,
they will be 100% fossil-free
but also 100% safe and 100% more productive.
And the good news is we are already delivering
in this direction.
We have delivered heavy duty Volvo V and R Electric
across 19 US states and Canadian provinces.
Worldwide, our electric Volvo trucks
are rolling in 49 countries
covering more than 130 million kilometers
or 82 million miles.
That's equal to
more than 3000 laps around the globe.
Our 15,000 engineers,
my 15,000 idols,
they are key players on this journey
because to decarbonize our industry,
there's no single magic solution, no silver bullet.
It's about having the right tools
for the right job to be done.
Different sectors in the transportation industry
need different solutions,
whether it's construction sites in cities,
transporting goods across the country,
or moving people in buses.
We will also see different solutions
for different regions of the world.
And that's where our three path propulsion strategy
come into play.
By 2040, we believe most vehicles will be electric,
but not just one kind of electric solution,
we are investing heavily in both battery electric
and fuel cell electric.
And besides electrification,
we're investing heavily in combustion engines,
running on fossil-free renewable fuels like green hydrogen.
But instead of me just telling you
how we are going to achieve all of this,
I think it's better that I show you.
So now imagine this,
a world where our cutting edge vehicles
and technologies are already transforming transportation.
That world isn't just a concept,
it's happening right here, right now.
And Anders, my VR assistant,
will help me with some live animations.
Anders, are you ready to go?
<v Anders>Yes.</v>
<v ->Behind me you will see</v>
our virtual representation of the world
where our innovations are already in motion.
As we go on this journey together here
you will experience how our technology
is shaping the future of transportation and construction.
So let's dive in.
Picture the cities of tomorrow, clean air, quiet streets
and emission-free vehicles delivering everything we need.
So how do we get there?
Well, let's start by following a package
to be delivered on this journey.
And behind me, you will see
our recently launched highway truck,
the all new Volvo VNL.
VNL is our name of our flagship truck here in North America.
Designed to set new industry standards
in heavy duty trucking
and it's the platform for all future technologies.
We know that aerodynamic has a major impact
on energy efficiency of a truck.
So we decided to change, optimize the cab design,
making it much more streamlined.
And this, together with major powertrain enhancements,
is a key factor in achieving
up to 10% in fuel and energy efficiency.
And the designed windshield brings other benefits.
It provides much better visibility for the driver,
which is important for safety on the road.
Much more into it's safety is in the Volvo DNA
and our engineers have focused
on several new active safety systems
to continue our journey towards zero accidents
or 100% safe as we say in Volvo.
One example is Volvo active driver assist
and a new pedestrian detection system,
alerting the driver
and activating frontal emergency braking if needed.
Our goal is clear, to create solutions,
meeting the demands of tomorrow cleaner, safer,
more efficient, smarter transport and construction.
Smarter is very much connected
to seamless connectivity and data.
All of it today we have 1.7 million
connected vehicles worldwide.
We are monitoring the performance of these vehicles.
We are being able to coach our customers on fuel efficiency
and to predict breakdowns of components
to avoid downtime in critical operations.
There is so much potential around connectivity and data.
But remember, we are on a mission to deliver.
Anders is helping me deliver a package.
And as we approach the city, our electric van from Flexis,
our joint venture together with Reno Group,
takes over the lost mile delivery of the package
to our homes.
With increasing urbanization,
booming e-commerce, electric transport is essential
to cut emissions and reduce air pollutions in city centers.
And then once delivery is made, we end up
with the packaging material at home, a form of waste.
Our Mack electric garbage truck arrives to ensure
that waste is managed in a clean and quiet way.
What we are showcasing here is a glimpse
of today's solutions as well as the future.
Emission-free vehicles,
designed to reduce environmental impact
and improve efficiency at every stage of the journey.
Now imagine you are walking besides a construction site
in the city on your way to work,
to school or to meet friends.
I mean heavy construction site
with many machines working in parallel.
A heavy construction site where the air is clean,
noise is minimal and everything is just running smoothly.
That's not the future, that's today
because right here behind me,
you see our electric excavator hard at work,
alongside a Volvo electric truck.
And to run a fully electric site like this
is definitely sometimes a challenge for the electric grid.
And to support and balance the grid,
we have our battery energy storage solution,
or BESS as we like to call it, no diesel generators,
no fumes, no noise, just clean energy getting the job done.
This is a complete ecosystem.
The excavator is digging, the truck is hauling
and the BESS is making sure we have a smooth operation.
These aren't just concepts they are real.
Real working solutions
that are building the cities of tomorrow
in a way that's better for the environment
and safer for everyone.
And now think what this really means.
We are not just electrifying construction,
we are transforming the entire process.
The entire ecosystem of city construction.
Question is of course what makes all of this possible?
A lot of important hardware, but not just hardware.
Our vehicles are getting more and more software defined.
We are truly at the beginning of a paradigm shift here.
And to cater for future demands, Volvo Group,
together with one of our main competitors,
Daimler Truck, intend to start tech joint venture
that will develop and deliver
a software-defined vehicle platform for commercial vehicles,
hardware, and software up to the operative system level.
The intended name of this joint venture is Coretura.
And by teaming up with Daimler Truck,
we will accelerate the development of this platform
and share the burden of heavy investments.
And by that, we are freeing up resources
that we are going to use to develop
all the Volvo Group vehicle functions
that will run on this platform.
It's important here to understand collaborating
with a competitor in order to be competitive.
We expect other commercial vehicle OEMs
to show interest in this platform.
And maybe this can turn into a standard operating system
for our industry.
This intended joint venture will pave the way
for the next generation of vehicles,
and it's much more than just a technological upgrade.
It's redefining transport intelligence.
Highly integrated vehicles that can be constantly improved
with software updates, providing greater safety,
greater productivity, and greater value
for all our customers.
And the transformation doesn't end here.
Let's move and move to hydrogen, green hydrogen,
an exciting piece of the puzzle
on our journey to decarbonize transportation.
Behind me, you will see
an articulated hauler in action, a beast.
Volvo is the world market leader in articulated haulers.
And this one is the world's first
hydrogen-powered articulated hauler.
In this case it's a fuel cell electric hauler prototype.
So instead of electric entity stored in batteries,
we are converting hydrogen into electricity
onboard the vehicle.
And this is a proof point
that fuel cell electric vehicles can manage
the toughest jobs in construction and long-haul trucking.
You definitely need a hydrogen infrastructure,
but the benefits of fuel cells are many.
You are not dependent on the electrical grid capacity.
You have a high hydrogen conversion efficiency,
long range, quick refueling,
and the only emission here, it's water vapor.
That's the kind of game changing solutions
we are talking about.
And besides hydrogen in fuel cells,
we also believe in hydrogen for combustion engines
as one of the fossil-free renewable fuels for the future.
I'm sure we are sure that we will see variations
of infrastructure, supply and price of green electricity
and green hydrogen in different parts of the world.
And again, that's why we have a three part strategy
to support customer needs just everywhere.
But there's more.
We are in a green and digital transformation
at the same time.
So let me introduce you
to a zero-emission autonomous wheel loader.
It's a truly innovative research and development concept,
uses AI to create self-learning capabilities,
meaning that it can adapt to different scenarios,
make real time decisions,
and even safely interact with humans on site.
It's a site, but our innovation doesn't stop on land.
So now let's continue with autonomous applications
and to Volvo Penta and our hybrid electric vessels.
I think some of you can agree
that docking a boat in tough conditions
can be a challenge, eh?
I see some of you're nodding. So do I.
Volvo Penta is offering an industry-first innovation
with assisted docking technology,
the next step in marine automation.
It simplifies the demanding task
of docking a boat in a harbor
by counteracting the effects of wind and current,
making it easier and safer to maneuver in tight spaces.
You simply point with a joystick where you want to go
and the system docks the boat.
On your left here,
you see how the system is docking the boat smoothly.
On your right, you see how Anders is struggling
to compensate for the winds.
It's not easy.
So Anders, do you want the second run or?
<v Anders>Yes, please.</v>
<v ->I would guess so, yeah.</v>
This innovation isn't only about convenience.
Like so much that I have shown you so far
it's about increasing safety and efficiency.
So far we have explored the transformation
of urban environments and construction sites,
but what about highways?
Volvo group's vision for the future
of freight transport is here.
The high-tech production ready Volvo VNL Autonomous,
the key piece of our autonomous transport exo system.
As Martin mentioned earlier, freight volumes are projected
to fivefold between 2010 and 2050.
Making autonomous transport not just an innovation
but a necessity.
Yet it's much more than just adding capacity.
Autonomous transport is about transforming
how goods move across vast distances
with greater efficiency and safety.
This transformation, however, is no small task
and it requires significant collaboration.
Why we have partnered up
with Aurora innovation whose Aurora Driver
is seamlessly integrated into the Volvo VNL Autonomous.
So now it's my pleasure to welcome Sterling Anderson,
co-founder and chief product officer at Aurora, Sterling.
<v ->Welcome.</v>
<v ->Thanks, thanks.</v>
And good morning CES.
It's great to be here
and showcase some of the extraordinary work
that's been done by our collective teams.
<v ->Great to have you here, Sterling.</v>
And we have worked together now for a couple of years,
and one thing is super clear,
we both share a deep commitment to safety.
At Volvo, safety is in our DNA, built into everything we do,
including the Volvo VNL Autonomous.
And at Aurora,
the Aurora Driver reflects exactly the same focus.
And I feel that the partnership between our teams
has taken safety to a new level.
What's your view, Sterling?
<v ->Yeah, that's certainly been our collective goal.</v>
Look, safety is the primary value proposition of autonomy.
Like Volvo, we built Aurora around a commitment to it.
Our driver is designed to be super human, to see further,
to think faster, and to react better
than a human driver could.
And I wanna show you a quick example of that.
What you'll see here in the video that we're about to play
is an Aurora-powered heavy truck,
hauling a commercial load in the middle of the Texas desert
in the dead of night.
A human driver wouldn't expect
to see a pedestrian on the side of the highway
in these circumstances.
Yet that's exactly what the Aurora Driver
is about to detect.
And what you'll notice is it detects that a full 11 seconds
before a human would've.
As this video plays, I want you to keep your eye
on the small red box that the Aurora Driver places
around the pedestrian when it sees it
and begins to track it.
And then I want you to watch the high resolution camera
and tell me, if you had been driving this truck,
at what moment would this pedestrian have been visible
to you and your human eye?
So we can roll the tape.
So you notice here right at the outset
that the Aurora Driver has already picked up
this pedestrian as is shown there in that box.
Now I want you to watch the camera feed
and imagine you're a human driving this truck at night.
It's about 11 seconds later.
Do you see that pedestrian?
That's enough time for the Aurora Driver
to have noticed, tracked,
decided it was safer to get over,
looked for other traffic in the adjacent lane,
gotten over and given sufficient birth
to this pedestrian in passing it.
<v ->11 seconds, that can definitely save a life.</v>
And that means to me that you and the team,
you have solved really the biggest challenges
in autonomous driving, this with accurately seeing
and then safely reacting to the world around you.
Could that be true?
<v ->Yeah, it's one of them. Certainly one of them.</v>
This and other examples like it give us confidence
that the system's capable
of superhuman performance on the road.
Now, Aurora's perception system
uses high resolution cameras, imaging radar,
short range lasers, microphones
in our proprietary first light lidar
to see the world around it
and see through darkness, rain, fog, and even snow.
And we've integrated this deeply
with the Volvo VNL Autonomous.
Giving the trucks that it operates, the ability to detect
and track even small objects like debris or small people,
it ranges of up to 500 meters.
Now the Aurora Driver that's operating these trucks
is constantly monitoring its entire surroundings
and it can make quicker,
more informed decisions than a human can.
As you saw in that video, 11 seconds really can save a life.
Now we tested the verifiable AI at the core
of the Aurora Driver in millions of miles
of real world driving and in billions
of effective miles in simulation.
For instance, before the Aurora Driver ever performed
an unprotected left-hand turn on the roadway,
it had practiced 2 million unprotected
left-hand turns in simulation.
<v ->It's impressive. 200 million simulations.</v>
I think we will know that making a left turn
with oncoming traffic is one of the trickiest move
on the road.
<v ->Yeah, yeah, the Aurora Driver's sophisticated system</v>
to do stuff like this,
but we can't deliver it alone.
To deliver the highest levels of safety,
quality, reliability, and scale,
we recognize that it has to be developed
and integrated deeply and hand in hand
with the self-driving truck platform.
And that's really where our partnership comes in.
<v ->Indeed, and we have built redundancy</v>
into the core of our truck.
When we look at the Volvo VNL Autonomous,
and you can experience it here at CES,
at the Continental both.
We are seeing a truck designed
from the beginning for autonomy.
It's built here at our North American plant
with six key redundancy systems, dual braking,
steering communication, computing power, energy storage,
and motion control.
We have even daplicated critical lights and hazard signals.
<v ->Yeah, and by tightly integrating the Aurora Driver</v>
with each of these systems, we've created a truck
that's not only safe, but it's reliable
and it's manufacturable at extremely large scales.
<v ->Exactly, and with this, we have now created the blueprint</v>
for autonomous technology for future models,
brands, and use cases.
So Sterling, this with partnership collaboration,
why is it imperative in order to take self-driving
to full production?
<v ->Yeah, that's a good question.</v>
Look early in the founding of Aurora,
we recognized the only way we could bring safe,
reliable, autonomous vehicles to market
was through an ecosystem of industry leaders.
A redundant platform, as I said,
is critical to the safe deployment
and large scale adoption of this technology.
Now, doing this work together,
it was a very large investment for both of us,
but it's one that I am confident
we'll provide enormous dividends for customers
of this product in the future.
<v ->And we are showing how partnership is the leadership.</v>
So ladies and gentlemen,
what we have shared today is not a concept or a prototype
or a vision of what's to come.
It's happening now.
Our autonomous trucks are already in commercial operation,
transporting goods for customers like DHL across Texas.
We have now been operating in autonomous mode
with the safety driver on public roads.
A key step in this journey.
Together, Aurora and Volvo have achieved many milestones
on the path to fully autonomous commercial trucking
with only one final step ahead,
tough one, removing the safety driver.
And we are well on our way to achieving that.
So ladies and gentlemen, together Aurora and Volvo,
we are not just gearing up for success,
we are delivering success.
Thank you Sterling for being with us here today.
Thank you for being a great partner.
<v Sterling>You bet. Happy to, thanks</v>
<v ->We have covered a lot of ground today together</v>
from electric vehicles and hydrogen-powered solutions
to software-defined vehicles
and autonomous technology.
At Volvo Group, we are proudly integrating
these exciting technologies
across transportation segments from sea to land,
from mining to highways, to city environments.
We are in the midst of transforming our industry.
I hope we have demonstrated to you
the powerful real-world potential
of a reimagined transportation
and infrastructure landscape
built with climate tech at its very core.
And speaking of transforming industry,
this is a journey that requires close collaboration
with our partners.
Here to share the details of how we tap into the power
of collective demand to drive innovation
across our supply network,
please welcome on stage my close colleague, friend,
our Chief Purchasing Officer, Andrea Fuder.
<v ->Hi, everyone, I am very excited to be here</v>
and share on how we can scale up climate tech
for a more prosperous future.
Let me start with some stats.
By 2050, 50% of the emission reductions
needed to achieve net zero are expected
to come from technologies not yet available at scale.
And in many ways, we will also need
to rely on new technologies,
innovations that still must be unlocked
for the green transition.
So if technologies are yet
to be imagined
or are in fact in the need to scale,
how can we build an innovations mindset
and create the prerequisites to scale?
Well big companies like us must utilize
their purchasing power and that of their entire ecosystem
to catalyze their commercial adoption.
Martin talked about driving prosperity
in how the most important part of the equation
is in fact, to take the whole ecosystem with us.
I am here to talk about how we can leverage purchasing power
and drive collective demand to enable the transformation.
Let me start by giving you a flavor
of our extensive supply network.
If we get at just one representative
from each of our first tier supply partners,
we would need 25 rooms like this.
Some 50,000 partners.
Each has its own supply network,
which creates an even vaster ecosystem.
So to achieve a sustainable future,
we must leverage this entire network.
Purchasing is in fact a strategic powerhouse
at the heart of every company.
It sets a direction of a business,
turning ambitions into reality, words into actions.
This is purpose and impact for real.
Our Volvo Group 2040 commitment
to a net zero value chain depends on our success together
in partnership, we are one team,
learning, innovating, accelerating,
and scaling technology innovations together.
And we have clear demands in place to drive innovation
for sustainable solutions like decarbonization targets
for our supply network.
And our influence doesn't stop
at our 50,000 direct supply partners.
These demands must be pushed
through the entire supply network,
forming a massive ecosystem
where every player shapes the future.
In many ways, it works a bit like
the good old game of domino
with every action creating a chain effect,
amplifying the impact.
At Volvo Group, we have moved
from transactional relationships
into real partnerships, driving prosperity
and impact for the entire value chain.
We are making it happen with a wide range of corporations,
utility companies, academia,
transport companies and startups.
Partnerships are being forged in ways
that no one would have imagined years ago,
even with our competitors.
And all this to help speed up the transportation
and logistics transition.
So in being a true partner, what do we do differently?
We extend our hand to help.
For example, we share our knowledge
and data openly to ensure a good pace of progress.
We offer upskilling through our purchasing
by Volvo Group platform in areas like carbon accounting,
energy savings, and circularity.
And in addition, we are unique in having
a dedicated team pursuing low carbon materials,
fossil-free and circular models who are at hand
and support to validate carbon reduction roadmaps.
Now, you may ask, is this approach successful?
Well, we were the first in the world
to launch fossil-free steel vehicles,
which created a totally new market.
And now we have moved further into low-carbon materials
with aluminum, copper, and polymers.
And of course, I can promise, we will continue to innovate,
but we do not innovate alone.
The collective impact is what will drive speed.
It is only by leveraging this collective purchasing power
that we can fast track green technology
and climate innovation.
But let's be transparent,
this is in no means an easy journey.
Fossil-based solutions, while currently lower in price,
do not include the full cost to society,
like costs for poor air quality, wildfires, flooding,
hurricanes, and so on.
All direct impacts of global warming.
We must find ways to achieve fair cost comparison.
And the world is complex.
Right now, we face geopolitical instability,
political fragmentation, regulatory pressure,
and the lack of synchronized agendas.
All this has of course,
an impact on our ability to deliver.
But our approach at Volvo Groups stays,
it is to navigate collectively
and find innovative ways
to accelerate our journey to net zero.
Because we cannot
lose our guiding north star
to come to a fossil-free society.
We simply need to foster the technologies
required for that transition.
The power of a supplied network with a shared purpose
to drive positive change is exponential.
This collective demand is in fact
a make or break for the green transition.
So how do we move forward?
The answer is obvious.
Together with transparency
and with trust.
And someone we certainly can trust to lead us
through this transition is Martin.
Let me welcome him back to stage for some closing words.
Martin, please join us again.
<v ->Thank you, Andrea.</v>
Thank you, Andrea.
It's so impressive to see
this impressive ecosystem
that Andrea is talking about
and many of you are here today
and the sphere of influence that we can represent,
but also that you can represent.
I'm under standing here now
representing the Volvo Group, very proud.
We have a fantastic heritage and history.
In many ways, Mack Trucks built America
from the Statue of Liberty
to supporting troops during World War I and II,
and up to today.
And in peril across the pond,
Volvo was instrumental in the Swedish success story,
going from a rural economy to an industrial
and high tech one.
And transport and infrastructure
continue to be a prerequisite for driving prosperity.
But we must deliver transportation
and infrastructure that is considerably more safe,
more sustainable, and more productive than it is today.
And we are in the middle of a historic transformation
with fantastic opportunities.
Succeeding is about aligning with long-term vision.
It is about utilizing innovation and technology,
creating business models.
It is about working together across sectors.
But more than anything, it is about dedicate
and passionate people coming together
to completely reinvent and transform our world.
As one of my predecessors said, long serving CEO of Volvo,
Soren Gyll, he said, "I take my hat off for everything
that has been achieved and I take my jacket off
and roll up the sleeves for the future."
On that note, please welcome back my fellow speakers
on stage again
and give them a big hands on applause, thank you.
Lars, Andrea, Ebba, Sterling.
So just to finalize, let's shape the world
we want to live in and let's do it together.
Thank you.
<v ->Yes.</v>