<v ->Welcome everyone.</v>
I'm Mike Bergman,
I'm Vice President of Technology and Standards
for the Consumer Technology Association,
owner and producer of CES.
Welcome to this amazing event this week
and to a session devoted to something else amazing
that's been going on, the United States Cyber Trust Mark.
It's my distinct pleasure
to welcome White House Deputy National Security Advisor
for Cyber and Emerging Technologies, Anne Neuberger today.
I'm also delighted to be able to welcome
the Federal Communications Commission Chairwoman,
Jessica Rosenworcel.
I'd also like to welcome the newly announced
lead administrator for the US Cyber Trust Mark US Solutions
represented by Global Vice President
and General Manager, Identity Management and Security,
Chante Maurio.
Best Buy Senior Director,
Head of Enterprise Privacy and Data Protection,
Michael Dolan is here
as is Amazon Vice President Steve Downer,
and they're also here to speak about this important program.
We will have a panel following some opening remarks
with subject matter experts on this program.
But first ladies and gentlemen, Anne Neuberger.
<v ->Hi everyone.</v>
Good morning.
It's really great to be here with everyone
and to talk about this program
with key partners in this program.
So first, connected devices bring
so much value to our lives.
You just have to walk around the CES floor
and you see everybody's eyes light up as they think about,
oh, that cool connected device, whether it's a connect,
whether it's large or whether it's small,
whether it's a personal device
or a large scale commercial environment.
And as we think about the value connected devices
bring into our homes from a national security space,
you know, we look at the threats, we look at the risks
and those threats and risks come both from countries.
We know, for example, China has a well-resourced,
sophisticated offensive cyber programs
and it comes from criminals.
And we see the impact
of criminal cyber attacks on hospitals in the country
and on connected devices across hospitals as a good example.
So as we think about how to give American consumers,
consumers around the world,
but this is a program focused first on American consumers,
the confidence know they can bring all kinds
of connected devices into their homes commercially into
companies knowing that those risks from countries,
adversarial countries or criminals can be managed.
That is where US Cyber Trust Mark comes in
and it connects consumers who want to buy secure
because they love the tech and they wanna feel there.
It can protect their privacy, it can protect their data
with companies who know that they want
to deliver a more cyber secure product,
but they want a way to show consumers
that they've done the effort, they've done this,
it's been tested, and the US government,
which wants to keep consumers safe
and wants to ensure innovation can be a part of our lives.
So Cyber Trust Mark connects the three of those.
Any companies whose products meet
the National Institute for Standard standard
and are tested to it can bear the government label,
and we're really thrilled to have Best Buy and Amazon here
to help us with the consumer education part of that.
A final comment, it's particularly exciting
to have US solutions selected
as the lead administrator first
because of the name recognition, the Trust UL Solutions has
because of the work you're already doing
and testing devices for.
So we want to leverage that as much as possible to jumpstart
and rapidly bring labeled products to the market.
And because it fills that key loop
and tie between government
and the private sector, a huge thank you in closing
to FCC commission chairwoman Jessica Rosenworcel
for her leadership throughout this program
and really the team across the FCC, across NIST
and across the White House who've worked
for the last two years to bring this into fruition.
So with thanks to everybody who is speaking today,
I want to turn it over to FCC chairwoman,
Jessica Rosenworcel.
<v ->Thank you so much Anne, and good morning.</v>
It is so terrific
to be here at the Premier Consumer Technology Showcase.
I'm sure all of you have had the opportunity to walk around
on the floor and you saw just what Anne described,
connected devices everywhere.
Those devices bring all kinds of conveniences
to our daily lives,
but they also introduce all kinds of cyber vulnerabilities
and that's what we're here to talk about today
with the US Cyber Trust Mark.
And when I talk about these issues, I always like
to tell this story from a writer
who wrote about cyber crime named Misha Glenn
and Misha Glenn writes about a bank,
and this was a bank that had spared no expense
when it came to cybersecurity
because of course they're dealing day to day
with the transfer of funds and security means all.
So they had spent lots of money on their networks,
on their systems with risk assessment and risk management.
They had a lot of confidence
that every fund transfer at their institution
would be secure.
But of course pride often comes before the fall.
And it didn't take very long for a hacker
to find their way into this bank and into this network,
and it didn't move through any
of those fancy systems they had put in place.
Instead, they found a vending machine,
like with chips and chocolate.
You know, the one where you go in mid-afternoon,
because you need a little salt or sugar
to keep yourself going as an employee.
Well, that vending machine had an IP address
and that IP address was not on their regular system
for updates for patches.
And I think that story is such a good one
because it reminds us that there is so much in our lives
that is connected, the things we think about
and the things we don't think about
and the vulnerabilities are only gonna expand
as we expand the number of connected things.
Right now, we've got about 18 billion internet of things
devices in the world.
There's gonna be 25 billion by the end of the decade.
All those devices you see on the floor, they're growing,
they're expanding rapidly.
So we've gotta expand our efforts to make sure
that every one of those connections is secure.
Whatever you bring into your homes
and whatever you bring into your businesses
should be secure.
I mean, just imagine you're shopping for a baby monitor.
When you bring that device into your home,
you wanna know it's not inviting malware
or someone monitoring what you're doing in your house.
How can we make it possible for consumers
and businesses to have that security?
And that's what the US Cyber Trust Mark is all about,
which is getting going right now.
And I appreciate the work
that we've done across the administration
and with the private sector to make this happen.
It started back in 2022 when we went to the White House
and we all gathered and talked about these issues
and I went back to the FCC
and said, we've been doing this for a long time.
We've been setting up relationships with the private sector
to make sure that radio frequency devices are secure.
We can do more using those relationships
and develop the Cyber Trust Mark.
So I really want to thank UL Solutions for stepping up
to be the administrator of this Cyber Trust Mark.
And what we're aiming for is something akin
to the Energy Star logo, which you might know
because when you buy a washer or dryer,
if you look for that logo, you know that
that is an environmentally safe product to purchase.
Our goal is to make the US Cyber Trust Mark similar.
So when you bring all those Internet of Things devices
into your house, you can look for
that logo and have confidence.
And the more companies that wanna use it,
the more consumers are gonna wanna request it.
And we're gonna have a virtuous cycle that makes more
of these Internet of Things devices
more safe and more secure.
This is not a small task, but it's worth the effort
because if we do this,
we are gonna have innovation opportunities like the ones
you see on the floor here that are gonna be expand
and we are gonna connect more things,
probably more vending machines, but lots of other things
and get lots of intelligence and utility
and convenience from them as a result.
But we'll be able to do it safely and securely.
So thank you so much
and I think I've gotta ask UL Solutions our administrator
to come up here and join us for some remarks.
<v ->So good morning everyone.</v>
It's such an honor to be here today to recognize the talent
and hard work that's been required to develop this program
that will equip, qualify
and smart products with a cybersecurity safety label.
From the dedication of the White House
through Deputy Neuberger to the leadership
and execution by Chairwoman Rosenworcel,
congratulations on the success of a multi-year journey
in launching a public-private partnership
to address a significant cybersecurity need.
I also want to highlight the many hours
that industry has already contributed to the development
of the Cyber Trust program.
We should all be thankful to CTA
and to the guidance that Mike Bergman in particular
has provided for leading work on the technical
and logistical needs for an IoT labeling program.
So a little bit about UL Solutions.
For 130 years, UL Solutions has been empowering trust
and pioneering technologies.
What started as testing of electrical wiring has grown
to include the enablement of 5G
and grid scale renewable energy.
We're excited to continue our mission of working
for a safer world, bringing the legacy to the security
of the connected products
that are now everywhere in our homes.
UL Solutions would like to commend the FCC
for recognizing the role conformity assessment
must play in labeling program.
Testing and certification are efficient means
for maintaining a level playing field,
providing consistency in the applications of standards
and enabling enforcement and identifying bad actors.
In short, it's the process that helps ensure
that consumers can trust in the program
and the products that carry the Cyber Trust Mark.
It's funny you mentioned the Energy Star program
because we also believe that just as the Energy Star program
educated the public and created incentives for manufacturers
to offer more energy efficient appliances,
our cybersecurity labeling program will pave the way
for more secure smart products.
We're honored to serve as the lead administrator
for the program.
As those of you who have followed the FCC's developments
of the program know the next 90 days will be busy ones.
It's only January 9th
and I think we're all already very tired.
Over this time, we'll be working with stakeholders
to develop recommendations that will serve
as the Cyber Trust Mark's technical requirements
for an initial chosen class of products.
While this will be a sprint, we intend this work
to be guided by five core principles in alignment
with the FCC's vision.
The first is to create a rigorous program
that will meaningfully impact security.
The second is that we want to leverage existing work
that stakeholders have developed
that has been guided by NIST 8425.
The third is that we want to work toward global alignment,
wherever that is possible.
The fourth, we want to involve a balanced group
of stakeholders in the process.
And finally, we want to focus
on the long-term sustainability of the program.
The 90-day process will rely on stakeholder committees
to develop requirements for testing the renewal process
and the label itself.
We encourage stakeholders with experience
and expertise in these areas to apply to join.
Please go to the new section
of the UL Solutions website to learn more.
The application window is really short
because our timeline is very tight
and we do intend to hold the first workshop the last week
of January and that workshop is going
to focus on the development of technical requirements.
Even after the 90-day process concludes,
there will still be a significant amount
of work ahead of us.
However, we're looking forward to being the organization
that not only helps launch the program,
but also makes sure it becomes a durable force
for improving security for many, many years to come.
So thanks so much for your time today.
I think I need to pass the mic to you, Mike.
Best Buy's senior director.
<v ->All right, good morning everybody.</v>
I'll be pretty brief here.
First off, Mike and I talked a little bit about this
and so to the two of you, thank you for your service.
Thank you for your initiative and support of this program.
And I have request for the room.
Could y'all please give a round of applause
and the congratulations for their success?
All right, so now as I was thinking about this talk,
this very brief talk I was thinking about, okay,
what does this room want to know?
What are the people who are here in support of this program?
What do you really wanna know?
What I'll tell you is
that Best Buy believes in the promise of this program.
I am here because Best Buy believes
in the promise of this program.
If you pursue this label with your products,
our intention is to support you in that effort
and to help you distinguish your product
through the various channels that we work with, right?
We've got our blue shirts at over a thousand stores.
We have our Geek Squads agents in thousands
of homes every day, our website with billions of impressions
and the most downloaded app over Black Friday,
that's for sales.
So we have these channels, we have these abilities,
and we're there to help you with it.
This is real.
This isn't vaporware.
This is a great opportunity for success.
And look, I'm here, Amazon is here.
Interestingly enough, neither one
of us are governed affairs people.
We're not the kind of people that usually do this
kind of stuff, right?
I'm the privacy guy, he's VP of huge sales
and he'll explain his title later.
But the bottom line is, it means something
that we are here and we're in support.
So I thank you to CTA, thank you Mike Bergman,
and I hope you all enjoy the conference.
<v ->Good morning.</v>
I hope everyone is having a fantastic CES.
I have found this to be an absolutely amazing year for CES
and I look at this forum
and I think what an amazing venue
to talk about such an important topic
as the US Cyber Security Trust Mark.
My name is Steve Downer
and I'm the Vice President
for Consumer Electronics at Amazon.
In addition to providing a vast selection to all
of our customers in the consumer electronics category,
I also serve the greater consumer technology,
this greater consumer technology community
as the chairman of the Consumer Technology Association,
their executive board.
And it's really through both of these lenses that I'm here
to offer our support for the US Cyber Trust Mark.
We believe that our customers will value
the US Cyber Trust Mark
and the confidence it will bring to packages
as they're delivered to your doorstep
or while you're shopping online.
It's funny because as a former major appliances executive,
your reference to the Energy Star program, it is spot on
and that is what we should all be envisioning
for this program as it moves forward.
It's taken many leaders
and a great amount of collaboration across many groups
to get the program to this point.
The government has prioritized the importance
of smart home security.
The private sector is stewarding the implementation
of the program and civil society
and standards organizations like the CTA
have created the technical foundational framework
for this important program.
I'd like to thank Anne
and the National Security Council, the FCC
and the CTA for pulling this event together today
and creating this forum for what will be
a wonderful discussion.
Thank you for having us here today
and I wish you all a wonderful CES.
<v ->I would like to echo the thanks to</v>
Deputy National Security Advisor Neuberger
and FCC Chairwoman Rosenworcel for your leadership,
driving this forward, leading the program effort
in both the White House and at the FCC,
the owner of the program, Chante, UL stepping up
as the lead administrator and our manufacturers
and retailers, the industry represented
by Best Buy and Amazon today.
I want to add one more and that is NIST.
For a long time now, NIST has been working
on the foundational technologies
that establish baseline security.
What is baseline security for IoT?
Because the original intent of this program was
to get a solid base of security
for as many devices as possible.
Something that could be rolled out and applied quickly.
NIST was led by a team
that included their chief technical gun, Mike Fagan.
I'd like to invite Mike to join us here on stage.
He's going to be one of our panelists.
With Mike Fagan, Dr. Mike Fagan.
We have Adam Goldberg,
who is a subject matter expert on cybersecurity for Sony.
Grace Burkard, who's director of operations
for IOXT, a cybersecurity certification entity,
and recently announced CLA, Cybersecurity Labeling Authority
for this program, designated so by the FCC
and Scott Register,
whose Keysight organization is developing test software
compatible with the requirements for the program.
In addition, all of these individuals
have contributed many hours of their own time
to build the technical foundations of,
any day now, the technical foundation of this effort.
I will briefly say, I'm going to do
a very, very quick dive into this,
but the CTA's technical standards bodies,
which is an ASC accredited standards effort
led by Alexander Blaskin.
The working groups have been developing
proposed documents with many, many
of the deep dive details necessary
to make a program like this work.
In the basic concept,
which generally is I would call the plan of record
for almost everybody involved in this program.
There's a QR code
and an FCC trademark protected,
a US PTO protected certification mark on the package.
An analogous thing on an eCommerce website,
the QR code provides a link to first a consumer friendly,
mobile friendly page.
You can scan this with your smartphone
and pull up the consumer friendly page.
A number of pieces of information, I'm not gonna go
through them in detail, but a number of pieces
of information that are listed in
the FCC's report in order.
In addition, there's a second page, which is for
the technical ecosystem
to help improve cybersecurity overall.
These two pieces of information are available
from any one of these packages
through the smartphone QR code reader.
Big picture wise, this is a voluntary program hosted
by the FCC administered by their designee UL Solutions,
that should say.
The standards and test procedures are going to be developed
as Chante mentioned, over the next 90 days ish.
Well, there's an opportunity
to extend the program a little bit if necessary.
And there's accreditation
for all the important entities involved.
The administrators of the program, the CLAs,
and for the test labs themselves.
NISTIR 8425 is the foundational document.
This is the consumer profile
of the NIST IoT cybersecurity baseline.
Mentioned that Dr. Mike Fagan led the technical effort
to develop both of those tracks.
The 8259 baseline and 8425.
The CTA technical working groups have been developing
a framework that takes 8425
and puts in more prescriptive detail exactly tracking it,
leaving nothing out, adding as little as possible,
but trying to make sure that it's a viable, workable,
detailed piece that leverages exactly what's in 8425.
And every one of the people on the stage has been
participating in helping develop that.
It is IoT product.
The consumer is protected best if we look not only
at the hardware device, but also at the app in the cloud.
And I mentioned the working groups process from here,
lead administrator program, we talked about,
there will be a number of additional public notices
to take the lead administrator developed recommendations
and bring them into the public record into law.
And then finally, I'll say what CTA is trying to do.
We believe that it's possible
to see certified products at this event next year.
So I wanna thank everybody who has contributed to this,
our five opening remarks people, the panelists, a host
of people in the background, and check with us next year.
So let's talk about the requirements.
The goal of this panel is to talk about
getting ready for certification.
And if you look at the top level requirements, you start off
with developing your product, of course,
but then you make an application.
So we're gonna do this a little bit backwards
and talk about the application requirements,
the responsibilities of the entity that gets the grant
of certification from the FCC through their designees.
And we just lost our screen.
So let's not stress over that.
Oh, there we go.
There we go.
So Grace,
IOXT is already deeply involved in accepting applications
for your own program.
And I think you probably have a really good feel for,
you know, all the give and take
and can you talk about this a little bit?
What's gonna be required for someone
who's applying for the mark?
<v Grace>Yeah, so as IOXT, we do a bunch of certifications</v>
for IOT products.
We really focus on smart home,
smart building, mobile applications, and cellular IoT.
For this program, obviously we're focusing
on smart home even more.
And so what we see on a day-to-day basis
is what do they need to do?
It's usually manufacturers, sometimes it's OEMs or ODMs,
but a lot of manufacturers.
And so that is going to be really relevant here.
So what do they need to do?
First, just start with the application process, right?
You need to submit an application,
complete the attestation process
that you will then receive the mark.
Once you receive the mark, you're on the hook
for any complaints that might come through.
These will be validated of course.
And so what that looks like is they'll need
to investigate those complaints.
There is a 20 day period where they need
to report the results of that investigation.
That's big because 20 days is not a lot of time,
so it's gonna be a pretty quick turnaround.
And the focus on that is great.
There are other common responsibilities
that you see on an ongoing basis.
So that's going to be, you know, maintaining records
and continued compliance.
But some of the new ones that maybe not everybody
is aware of is keeping the registry
or API updated if there's any,
we have our own registry I should start with.
And so you can go to our website,
you can see which products are already certified.
You can see how they're certified.
And so I'm sure there will be probably multiple registries
at this point for the CLAs.
So the manufacturers will have that responsibility
to make sure that that is up to date with any new versions
or software updates.
There's also going to be point of contact for everyone,
all the manufacturers, where they will be able to have
individuals, you know,
you hear about vulnerability disclosure programs
and so individuals can submit disputes or complaints.
And so that will be important of having
that point of contact.
We'll talk about that a little bit later,
but that's a big one going forward.
And then another big one
is going to be actually educating customers.
And this is a big task
because it's slightly out there.
We'd like to see more of it happen.
And so in that instance, we are really looking for
what do customers need to do when it comes to configuration
or product security.
And then especially a big one that's coming up
and you'll hear a lot more about it
is the software support period, right?
There's not a whole lot that do it currently.
I mean there are some,
but the ones we like to see more of it.
And the ones that are doing it,
that support period really ranges.
It could be one year, two years, 10 years, 20 years.
So I think it's really great for consumer transparency
to understand what they're signing up for
and then to have some accountability as well.
<v ->That's a lot.</v>
<v ->Yeah, sorry.</v>
<v Michael>So there's requirements going in.</v>
Including a successful test report
and then there's some ongoing compliance requirements.
Well, let's talk about the technical requirements
going into this.
What does the product need to do?
So the first thing that caught my eye
when I was first introduced to the baseline requirements
was the asset identification.
Basically some identifier.
Scott.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
So I'll take that, right?
So asset identification really means that every component
of your IoT product has a unique identifier
that the product maintains an inventory of all
of the unique identifiers or the components of the product.
When I say components could be sensors, smartphone apps,
thermostats, you know, whatever.
And that that inventory is available
to authorized entities, right?
So why do we have that?
Well, having a unique identifier
for some kind of entity is really important
for security, right?
When you log onto your bank account,
your username is your unique identifier.
So if you're John Smith at, you know, Bank of America,
there's not another John Smith with that username.
And so when you log in, you see exactly your bank account.
It's also really handy if you're doing forensics,
like if there is a security event, you want to be able
to uniquely identify all of the different devices,
let's say on a network.
So you can see which ones were impacted, go back,
maybe see was there firmware modified
and things like that.
One kind of important note there,
if that unique identifier is exposed,
if that causes a security issue, then you have
to protect it, right?
Like, so if the identifier for your device gets exposed
and that's a problem, you have to make sure
that that is protected.
Like if you've for some reason built that into a password
or something like that.
Now this caused, I think hearing this requirement
caused maybe a little concern
because there was maybe some concern
with manufacturers, oh, does this mean every device has
to roll off, you know, the assembly line
with a unique identifier, a globally unique identifier,
and you know, how do you manage that?
It's actually not that bad
because manufacturers get to decide sort of
how they manage that process.
And that unique identifier can be sort
of unique within a deployment, right?
So I can have a, you know,
a webcam deployment at my house called, I don't know,
I could name it THX 1138.
And then I could have camera one, camera two,
camera three inside that.
Now Adam down the street could also have camera one,
camera two, camera three in his deployment.
But because the top level name is different,
he calls it Adam's network
or whatever, then those are unique, right?
Because you combine the deployment name, the camera name,
so it's really pretty easy
to meet that requirement.
<v ->So just to clarify,</v>
when you say components,
you mean the top level components like the hardware box,
the software app, the cloud services.
Not the chips.
<v ->That's right.</v>
That's right.
<v ->Okay, great, great.</v>
Got it. Got it.
Cool, cool, cool. Thank you.
Product configuration,
what does that mean?
<v ->Happy to give</v>
a little bit background on that.
And actually to add on the last one, I think just
to reiterate what Scott said
and the need for asset ID from this perspective,
like the example given this morning by the chairwoman
about the vending machine and how it kind of gets lost
in the mix as just another IP address.
The ability to identify like Scott was reflecting
can support even a business
that's using this kind of technology
to be able to manage their network.
Now, that wasn't a main goal, of course, as being
for consumers, but that kind of cross sector,
if you wanna call it that use of
consumer IoT was something that's been
on our minds.
<v ->Terrific, terrific.</v>
Well how about
product configuration?
<v ->And so with</v>
product configuration.
<v ->Is this software?</v>
<v ->No, no, no.</v>
Not how you configure the software in your system
or on your backend.
I know we just mentioned like clouds
or even the mobile applications configuration
in the sense of what libraries it might use.
Here we're talking about the settings
that you would see in a product.
You know, Scott mentioned the ability
to change the password.
So to set that password
or to set the identifier to something
that would be unique in your configuration,
or excuse me in your environment,
is the kinds of settings we're talking about here.
So product level settings
that might then apply across all those high level components
like we were mentioning before.
And built into this is also this
concept of a secure default.
So when you open it up, you plug it into your network,
either you're immediately prompted as a user
to take certain actions to configure certain settings,
changing a default password for example.
Or it is already secure by some measure of the program
or somebody else there that you know,
maybe you don't even have
to touch it.
<v ->So you got the option</v>
to go back to a secure default
even if the configuration settings are messed up.
Very cool, data protection.
Okay, this one I think everybody has
an intuitive feel for.
<v ->Do you though?</v>
So for data protection, I mean, you know,
it sort of includes a bunch of sensible things like
don't store passwords in clear text and memory
and things like that.
But more broadly, I suppose that that whatever data
is stored gets appropriate security for that data.
So passwords and you know, user name passwords,
credentials like that,
of course we've gotta be, you know,
have a different sort of security to it than, you know,
cached website data or something.
But on the other hand,
things that are sensitive to you,
things like personally identifiable information
or things like that are stored securely
and maintained securely.
And I think there's a real need
for that in terms of being robust to somebody trying
to exfiltrate that sort of data
but also part of the data protection
is to sanitize inputs.
Make sure that the data
that the device or product is processing
is not able to do things it shouldn't be able to do.
There's an XKCD from a number of years ago
that that talks about a woman who named her kid
an SQL string, like drop, you know, drop students
or something to delete the database.
And so it's things like that where you, you know,
if it's a text field, there shouldn't be any way to,
you know, insert SQL commands into it in a way
that they actually work.
And there's a whole set of these sort of things
and related things like cross side scripting and stuff.
So it's important that the products
only do what they mean to do and not allow,
you know, injection of some sort of programmatic
or otherwise things
that could be disruptive.
<v ->And what about</v>
transmission of data?
<v ->Well, yes, for sure.</v>
Oh yes, thanks Mike.
So among the sets of requirements is, you know,
the things be secure, but the data be secured
in a non deprecated manner.
So for example, you know, I mean if, depending on
how far back you can remember, SSL 1.0
and 1.1, like the very beginnings
of secure internet traffic,
their usefulness has long passed.
And the current ones
are the only ones that should be used.
Everything prior, which was deprecated for one reason
or another because there was some vulnerability
or the better way to do things or et cetera
that those things aren't used.
So with respect to data protection,
you gotta actually protect the data
and not just look like it.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
And I know CTA has a list of deprecated protocols
that's gonna be submitted
to the 90 days stakeholder processes,
potentially a template for don't use these.
Great, great.
Interface access control.
I know what all those words mean.
<v ->So the sort of simple explanation is</v>
any ways into your device, any network ports
or physical interfaces, access to those is restricted
and controlled, right?
So practically what does it mean?
If you have a physical kind of interface on your device,
you don't want someone to be able to walk up to it
and plug into it
with some commonly available tool and take it over.
Right?
Now if it's a proprietary interface
or you have to have some special protocol to attack,
you're probably fine, but you don't want someone just
walking up with like a serial port and plugging in
and taking it over because you don't know where all
of these devices are deployed.
Now, on the network side, which is typically
how these things are accessed, you want to make sure,
first of all that you're not exposing
any unnecessary services.
So for example, if you're building an IoT product
that's based on Android, you wanna make sure
that the Android debug interface isn't turned on
because that--
<v ->Or FTP.</v>
Insecure services.
<v ->Yeah insecure services</v>
that aren't needed for device setup or management.
So if you don't need it, it should be turned off.
I mean that's because if you can
make the attack surface smaller,
it's harder to get into, right?
Really sort of basic stuff.
And then you want to also make sure
that you have good passwords, right?
So access to any interface needs
to be authenticated and that means, you know,
doing so in a good way.
So what does a good password mean?
Basically things like passwords should be changed
on first use or they have to be randomly generated
and strong, right?
Long special characters, things like that.
Why do we need something like that?
If you think back to like the Mirai Botnet, right?
Which took down huge chunks of the internet,
why was that successful?
It wasn't super sophisticated,
but there were hundreds of thousands of IoT devices,
webcams, set up boxes, et cetera, that were still running
with a password they left the factory with, right?
And so if you just gathered up a list of half dozen
or so with those passwords, you could take over lots
and lots of devices and we don't want that to happen again.
That's one of the big goals of the program
is sort of protecting the internet, right?
And so if you have good passwords,
then that's a lot less likely to to happen.
And then one of the last things, oh what, sorry,
quickly, so input validation,
and Adam touched on a lot of this, you wanna make sure
that you're not receiving data
that can mess up your device, right?
So if someone can't pass a string that's too long,
that writes stuff into executable memory, like malware,
that could let someone again, take over the device.
We saw that recently with a smart plug, right?
Where that was the case.
<v ->Terrific. Terrific.</v>
Yeah, I just wanna ask our panelists
to pick up the pace a little bit,
make sure that we get everything in.
Okay.
Software update, this is great.
There's only one bullet item here,
so it must be easy to do, right?
<v Grace>Yes, I can take that one.</v>
That is actually, it's gonna be very quick, right?
So software product components should be able to be updated
by authorized individuals or services using a secure
and configurable mechanism.
So what does that really mean?
That they would be able to,
the component essentially can receive, verify
and apply the update
and then also that mechanism, how it's done,
essentially, is it going to be automatic?
Which would be great
because then it could just happen
when the manufacturer updates.
Or another way is to provide a push notification
to customers and then wait for the customer
to manually go in
and update it.
<v ->Terrific, terrific.</v>
And I have to say that this is,
to me, this is one of the most important elements
of this program overall because we mark a boundary
between a requirement that the device just work
and the next generation led by the US Cyber Trust Mark,
the requirement is the product has to work
and be updated when it's hacked.
And that is even they think it's hacked.
Okay, moving on.
Cybersecurity state awareness.
<v ->I can grab this one quick.</v>
<v ->Sure.</v>
<v ->So the idea like it says in the slide is</v>
to support some kind of logging in the device
or the product I should say.
The goal here is to support even folk ad hoc forensics
by the user perhaps,
but not necessarily the baseline is
that this data's collected somewhere
within the product ecosystem.
So if a update were to fail, say,
or if it for some reason a encryption algorithm defaulted
to something that wasn't acceptable to the particular user
or some other context of the ecosystem, it's captured
and that data can then be accessed and we know it's secure.
We know that that data can be trusted
by some forensics entity.
Might be the manufacturer themselves,
might be another third party looking into something
that happened.
<v ->Or even, you know,</v>
multiple attempts to log in with the wrong password.
<v ->Certainly yes.</v>
<v ->Right.</v>
But the key is to be able to have
an effective forensic investigation
and figure out what happened where the problem was
so that it can be fixed.
<v ->Exactly.</v>
<v ->And now does the consumer,</v>
I think there was something
about the manufacturer.
<v ->Yeah, I mentioned</v>
at the top, you know,
a consumer may have a reason to access this
for some products, but for many products,
especially the full scope of what would be captured
to support forensics, effective forensics user wouldn't need
or should not be able
to access that.
<v ->But the manufacturer</v>
should be getting data,
I mean this is unfortunately this is the, you know,
ET is phoning home again,
issue that people have with privacy.
But the manufacturer getting data that says, you know,
this particular thing is happening across the board
to many of my devices,
it's a call to action for the developers.
<v ->Exactly.</v>
<v ->Terrific. Terrific.</v>
I think this one is a little,
was one of the most difficult ones for me to appreciate
and I appreciate the clarity.
All right, let's talk about
the non-technical requirements.
So that was a quick walk through the six major categories
of technical requirements from the 8259 baseline
that migrated into the 8425 consumer profile.
These are NIST documents,
so you can find them online very easily.
But what does the organization need to do.
<v ->Right?</v>
<v ->I can take</v>
this one too, Mike.
So we're talking about non-technical now,
these are things the organization would be doing,
doesn't necessarily be reflected through the products,
features or functions.
One of the core non-technical capabilities we talk about
in 8425 is documentation, excuse me,
this is sets of information collected,
what we say pre-market and post-market.
So throughout the entire life cycle of a product
that show all sorts of different things,
it's contextual to the product, right?
A few examples of what is required across the border.
Given on the slide here for pre-market, for, well for both
of them, but I'm gonna stick to the pre-market,
just to keep it short.
The list of the IoT components like we were talking about
earlier, where is the cloud?
What is it, what kind of app are you using to support it,
the product itself.
And then of course as what we were just discussing,
how you might meet those baseline product criteria,
particularly the technical ones.
What kind of data protection do you use?
What kind of configuration is available?
How can you set the asset ID
or what kind of asset ID is used?
For example.
<v ->Right, right, right, right.</v>
So this is an example of ongoing compliance
in the post market.
<v ->Yes, yes.</v>
<v ->Okay, great.</v>
Information and query reception.
Grace is looking at me.
<v ->I can help with this one.</v>
So essentially what this means
is information intake, right?
So essentially the manufacturer having
some type of program we usually refer to them
as vulnerability disclosure program
or bug bounty program, CVE.
And so that program allows individuals to
report complaints or issues or incidents
and usually cybersecurity incidents.
I need to make that clear
because this is not feature issues, right?
It's not, oh, I'm locked out of my account,
I forgot my password, I have a broken part.
These are cybersecurity incidents.
So you're looking at your bugs, your vulnerabilities,
and I believe that if you have these programs in place,
which there could be more,
and having a point of contact to be able to report those,
that's going to be really important.
It helps with, you know,
some market surveillance, which is great.
And then also if anything is found, it's going
to help boost the security of those devices
because when we go back to software updates,
you can make those updates and push them out and make
the products more secure.
<v ->Well then there's</v>
a specific advertised point of contact
for security researchers to say, hey, I found this thing.
A lot of that exists now,
but it's sometimes a problem for a researcher
to reach the right people,
especially in very large companies.
<v Grace>Right.</v>
And it could be something as simple
as security@company.com, right?
It doesn't need to be, oh,
contact this person at this time, these days.
I mean, just a general inbox
would be great.
<v ->Yeah, we recommend</v>
security at domain name
as just the easiest, simplest way.
And that's actually what researchers have told me
they usually do first is they just put the word security at
and then the domain of the company
and then see if that gets a response.
Okay, so that's information reception,
taking in security information
from the ecosystem.
<v ->Yes.</v>
And then you have information dissemination,
and this is pushing out information.
So this is where manufacturers
for any cyber security relevant information
that may come across specifically maybe from these queries.
So then this is where they are pushing that information out
to relevant people, right?
So that's your customers.
If there's a breach and something happens
and there are steps that need to be taken
or actions to rectify that, then they need to make
that information available and put that out there.
Likewise, it's not, I mean that could also be
mitigation operations, it could be maintenance operations,
could be terms of support or service.
So there's a lot of different things
that it could be, but not just customers.
You also wanna look at your external stakeholders.
So that includes, you know, third party support,
any supply chain partners, certifiers, you know,
whoever it's going to impact
and needs to have this information.
So a good way to think about it is like, okay,
we need to have information being brought in
and then based on that information
and if it is verified, what do we,
what do the manufacturers need to do
and communicate to everybody else in order
to let everybody know.
<v ->So I find out that</v>
log 4J affects my products
and I need to send out an advisory to, you know,
the test lab and to my customers and Chairwoman Rosenworcel.
<v ->Yeah, exactly.</v>
<v ->And when those,</v>
when problems are found in open source that's used
by lots of folks that it get fed back
into the open source process.
<v ->Yeah.</v>
<v ->And again,</v>
raising security across the board.
Terrific.
What's the risk assessment thing?
<v ->I can give some details on that if you like.</v>
So risk assessment
as we're the CTA 2119 effort landed is recommended
but not required to be certified.
So if you meet all the other requirements, you may not need
to produce the risk assessment or threat model
or whatever you might call it for your product.
But from this perspective, we feel that your application
of any cybersecurity is gonna be undergirded by
that threat model or that risk assessment.
How you are securing the broader ecosystem
and how you might imagine your customers are gonna secure
the product and the consumer space, you know, that's ad hoc.
There's not a CSF that consumers are gonna be using
that you can look to, to understand their
exact requirements and needs.
Which is why I think the good work that's gone into 2119
helps demonstrate a lot of the kind of security
that you would expect across the board.
But in some cases there may be products that need
to communicate a risk assessment
as far as information dissemination as part of the process
of being certified for one reason or another,
they're doing it differently.
<v ->Okay, terrific.</v>
I mean, risk assessment's part
of a secure development life cycle.
<v ->Yes.</v>
<v ->And you start off saying,</v>
what am I at risk for here in the first place?
Okay, thank you.
Product education and awareness.
Bring us home.
Bring us home.
<v ->Bring us home.</v>
Thank you.
So in addition to all of these other things
that it's important to provide consumers information
that they need about this whole, what the label means
and what the implications of that are.
Things like what they need
to know about changing configuration settings,
requirements system passwords and other access controls.
The fact that software updates are, you know, available
and for how long and what the mechanism is
for those updates to happen either automatically
or you know, periodically, you might get notified
that there's an update available, click here to do it.
That sort of thing.
And that, you know, all of this sort of includes
how the maintenance of the product works,
including what happens after this.
The support period is over, you know, it's possible
that security updates persist beyond
other warranty issues or shorter even.
And so to explain to consumers
what all the details, benefits and maybe cautionary tales
about how to operate the product
that has the certification.
<v ->All good. All good.</v>
Thank you. Thank you.
I'm gonna jump to one last slide, get your cameras out.
This slide has a QR code that goes to a CTA landing page
with more information about the program.
We will be updating that
with some information from UL Solutions.
Chante and I will need to coordinate on that.
But to make sure that you can get into that effort,
the 90 day stakeholder process, there's our
contact points, standards@CTA.tech if you're interested
in that part of the process.
And finally, the FCC has a booth
for the US Cyber Trust Mark.
It's the second level of the Venetian,
it's at the top of the escalators.
When you get to the top of the escalators, turn around
and go back a little bit and you'll see it there.
And they've got flyers and information
and people to talk to you about the US Cyber Trust Mark.
So that's level two at the Venetian, it's SUL-2
and you can also find it in your app.
There are multiple FCCs in the app,
so make sure you find the right one.
I want to thank my panelists for the brilliant analysis
and update for everyone here today.
I want to thank our esteemed guests
and I also want to thank all the media who got up and left
after our esteemed guests spoke,
because that was actually pretty amusing to see.
So ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for coming.