<v Announcer>Please welcome the President</v>
of the Consumer Technology Association, Kinsey Fabrizio.
<v ->Good afternoon and welcome to CES 2025.</v>
As you all in this room know,
CES brings together the products and services
driving the tech trends
and the innovators whose vision
is reinventing the world around us.
That's why I am so thrilled to welcome Accenture,
an innovation led company and longtime participant at CES.
Accenture helps leaders reinvent themselves
using emerging tech to be more efficient
and create a great customer experiences,
and serves as a trusted partner to more than 9,000 clients
in more than 120 countries.
And under Chair and CEO Julie Sweet,
the company has reached new heights,
delivering innovation and transformation on a global scale
through cutting edge solutions
in AI, cloud, computing, sustainability,
and digital transformation.
In addition to advising clients,
Accenture has been rapidly reinventing itself too,
using technology, data, and AI.
Julie has been recognized
as one of "Times" 100 most influential people
and one of "Fortune's" most powerful women in business.
As AI applications expand, she served as a trusted advisor
helping businesses use AI and data
to power their own reinvention,
and a leading voice urging companies
to develop and use AI responsibly.
She'll be joined on stage by Julia Boorstin,
CNBC's Senior Media and Tech Correspondent
who covers both topics with a focus on tech innovation.
Julia is also the author of the bestselling book,
"When Women Lead"
and a creator of CNBC's Disruptor 50 list of companies
transforming our economy.
Please help me and welcome Julie and Julia to the stage.
<v ->Thank you you so much,</v>
and thank you to to the CTA and CES for having us here.
Before we get started, I just wanna acknowledge something
that I know is on a lot of our minds,
which are these devastating fires
in the Los Angeles area, my hometown,
and I just hope that technology can be part of the solution
for rebuilding and also preventing this kind of tragedy
from happening again, so.
<v ->Yeah, it's just, it's so hard.</v>
We were just talking about this backstage,
'cause my family is also, I grew up in southern California.
My sister's still there, my brother's still there.
I was up like you, like half the night.
Like I was like,
what if you fall asleep and you need to evacuate?
I mean, it's just so hard.
And when you see the devastation, it's terrible,
so really our prayers are with everyone.
<v ->Yes, well, just wanted to acknowledge that,</v>
before we talk about some very exciting
and very positive and optimistic news.
And you had a number of different headlines out of CES.
You launched your 12 industry agent solutions
to help accelerate AI.
Walk us through what this news means, the AI Refinery.
What is an AI Refinery?
<v ->Like, I like to think of it really simply.</v>
So just think about all of us, we each have a brain,
and in our brain they work kind of the same way, right?
They've got the same structure and then we learn.
So if you think about what's happening today in companies,
every company I work with is doing a lot of pilots.
Like they've got a million things going on
and most of the CEOs I talk to are like,
"Okay, this is hard.
It's not really giving me the value."
And a big step that companies have not so much missed,
but now need to move to because they were really excited
is how do they create a brain that has the structure
that works, whether you're in the US or you're in Europe,
wherever you are in the company,
and then allows this AI to learn and change your company?
And what people are missing is the structure
and the ease of then being able to plug in.
And so what we did is we created the brain.
And that brain has,
think of it as a way of like you're onboarding a new model,
you wanna use a model, it comes in, it gets certified,
it goes out.
All of your people don't ever have to know about that.
But you know, as CEO, it's safe.
It has these agents that everyone's talking about
that are all trained in your data
and they will work with everything.
And all of this works with all of your technology.
So it was built on NVIDIA technology as part of the brain,
and Accenture and NVIDIA have a complete,
everything must be interoperable,
so you're not now creating some new tech debt,
but it's allowing you to have the structure
so that you can do the holy grail
that every CEO complains about.
How do I scale, how do I make it easy for my people,
and how do I focus on how to use it,
as opposed to the very, very complex landscape that,
you know, everyone's trying to learn about it?
And we kind of, we try to make that simple
for every organization.
So we're really excited.
It was something that we've been developing
based on all of the work and all of our work
with all of our partners is to how do we help our partners
and our clients get to value faster?
<v ->So AI Refinery is sort of the platform,</v>
and then these industry agent solutions
are tools that will help each individual company
build their agents faster, more efficiently,
but they're still customizing them to their own data set
and their own corporate information.
<v ->Absolutely, so if you think about Accenture, right?</v>
We're a $65 billion company.
We work across every industry.
We work with the leaders in every industry.
And what we've done is we've said,
well, we have this new great technology,
but rather than have each of our clients
have to make up every single part of it,
we're industry experts, we're functional experts,
we know the processes, if you're a refinery in the energy,
if you are doing claims or insurance.
And so we've taken all of our knowledge and said,
"Here's your starter kit.
Now take the starter kit and make it your own."
And using that brain, that AI Refinery,
we then tie it to your internal data, to your external data,
and now you've been supercharged,
not just with the technology, but with your own data.
And you're gonna go a lot faster
because you get to leverage all of our expertise.
<v ->And so give me an example</v>
of one of these AI agent solutions
and how it might work for a particular industry.
I mean you mentioned oil refinery,
but walk us sort of through how it might work.
<v ->So I'll use Accenture because as always, right,</v>
we try to do this to ourself
and one of my favorite and first examples
where we used an agent at scale was in marketing.
Now, as you might imagine at Accenture with 700,000 people,
we like to talk
and we like to come up with new thought leadership, right?
So starting a couple of years ago,
we got all of that cleaned up
so we know what's happening any place in our company.
But when we wanna put out a new thought leadership piece
had a lot of steps, right?
You had somebody who'd go out into the market
and they'd look at, what are our competitors saying?
You'd say, look at, what are our ecosystem partners saying?
Look at what our clients are saying.
Then there was quality reviews.
And someone has to look at, hey, is this new,
or is someone, have we said it someplace?
We're really big, right?
All of those were tied to people
and sure we use technology to do search in that,
but that was all.
Now today, I've got that creative idea,
I wanna make a campaign out of it, and literally in minutes,
as that person who wants to,
I wanna sit down and write something.
I have a digital agent who's gone
and looked at everything that's being said externally
by the areas that I want,
that tells me everything that I already have,
so I don't write something new.
And then, and this is one of my favorite parts,
when I start writing, it judges me.
It tells me, "Hey, that's not very differentiated
from what the competitors have said,"
or "That has absolutely no difference
than that other asset."
And then as I write it, I get instant feedback, right?
This all, this used to be people and time,
it literally would take weeks,
and now the first thing takes minutes,
and we are cutting about half of the time
from the creative idea to getting it into the market.
<v ->So massive efficiency and more accuracy?</v>
<v ->Much better quality, and, you know,</v>
I can't afford to have every single person
be the absolute best editor,
to be the absolute best person who understands,
you know, what's going on.
And what this allows me to do is the quality is,
you know, we'd get there in the end,
but we're getting there like, you know,
I call it first time right,
because we're getting the highest quality inputs
early in the process.
Now we had to massively change how we work.
And like when we go back to think about that brain, right,
and that we're learning, the other thing we've had to do
is change the structure of how we operate the company.
Because all of that used to be a sequential process,
and then you'd have these loops.
Now, we had to sit back and say,
"Well what's the new creative process
when this is happening,
and when do we have the human in the loop?
And how do we now actually get people
to change the way they do it?"
And not by the way, go check themselves, right,
'cause you have to build trust.
And one of the most important things,
you know, we just put out our tech vision
that we talk a lot about is trust,
<v Julia>Yeah.</v>
<v ->because if you have</v>
this great technology and people don't use it,
first of all it won't learn,
so it won't get better and it won't create value,
but it's also not, there's no return on your investment.
<v ->So you just segued to my next question,</v>
which is about this concept of trust.
I mean, in your Accenture Technology Vision report,
it's the 25th annual one, which is kind of amazing
if you think about how much the technology world
has changed in the past two and a half decades,
but this idea of trust is really essential
to the future of AI, but it's not just trust of people
believing that it's gonna work.
Walk us through sort of the nuances of that
and how companies here should be thinking
about building that trust.
<v ->It's such an important question,</v>
and I think part of what's been missing is sort of,
there's two dimensions to the trust.
One dimension, as you said, is does it actually work, right?
And that trust comes from using it.
And then as you use it, by the way,
it doesn't work at the beginning, it has to learn and that.
And so there's a defined way of building that trust, right?
If you get people to learn it, et cetera,
they can see that it works.
Now you have to have change management,
you have to build it in,
but that's in some ways the easiest part of trust.
It's an important step, but it's important.
It's the emotional side of trust that is equally important,
and that's the trust where it says,
wait a minute, is this gonna take my job?
You know, what's the future gonna look like, right?
Is it gonna hurt parts of our business?
It's the part that people get emotionally worried about.
Are my kids gonna have a job?
I mean, I travel and talk to people all over the world,
and a lot of times in those casual conversations
when I'm with companies,
those are the things they kind of ask me on the side,
"Julie, what should my kids study?"
And that affects whether you're using it and embracing it.
And so one of the things that we do is really recommend,
and I talk to a lot of CEOs and CHRO's
as you're thinking it is that
it's important as you think about like change and adoption,
that you recognize both components.
One is about learning and practice.
The other emotional is about transparency.
It's about empathy, right?
It's also, it's very much about being direct as well.
If you get those two pieces right,
you will accelerate your ability
to really reinvent what you're doing,
and instead of it sort of being a pull, right,
you really open up.
And I think people want this.
I mean, we're all using it.
I was cracking up because my fifth grade niece
just sent all these AI avatars of our whole family.
She's in fifth grade, like, you know,
and she sent it on her grandmother's phone,
and of course the grandmother's like thinking,
this is great.
Like this is a part of our life.
It's not like you go to work and you say,
"Well, I don't want AI there.
I only want it at home."
But it's incumbent on us as leaders
to actually bring people along that journey.
And at Accenture we have leadership essentials,
like how, you know, this is what it takes to be a leader.
And one of the most important is the courage to change
and the ability to bring people along the journey.
Both are important.
You have to invest as a company and a leader.
You owe it to your people to work on that piece.
<v ->So that leads directly to this question of the workforce</v>
and those concerns you hear from people all over the world,
is this AI going to be taking my jobs?
And if it's not gonna be taking someone's job,
what do they need to do
to make sure that they're still contributing
and is what they do have to be different,
have to be evolved?
So one thing I think is so interesting about Accenture
is as you are innovating and disrupting your own business
and deploying all these technologies on your own business,
you're advising companies
across every single different sector on how to do the same.
What are the workforce implications for your business,
but also across industries?
<v ->If you're only to remember one thing</v>
about workforce implications, and again,
I'm always the biases like on being practical
is AI changes the skills that your leaders need.
So I'm gonna start with leaders.
And what I mean by that is if AI can reinvent
like how you're going to market
or how you're running finance,
then everything you know about process
and you have to actually understand,
well, what can the technology do
in order to now reinvent it?
Most of us, almost all of us,
didn't grow up with something called gen AI
or gen tech architecture, so now skill is,
you must understand this technology.
That's a skill.
And so you have to look at all of the job descriptions
and say of the skills they need,
this is one of those skills.
And then you have to say,
and how are they gonna get it, right?
We've been talking about, and one of my most passionate,
you know, things is around skills-based human resources.
So about five years ago,
we built our own database of all of our skills.
So I have 780,000 people
and I have all of their skills in a database.
I can actually run an algorithm to say,
hey, I need some more cloud people.
Who could be upskilled in 20 hours, right?
But why do I care so much about it?
Is it goes back to,
how are we gonna invest in our people
to bring them along the journey?
If you don't understand, first of all,
what skills are needed to do the job
and then how they're changing it,
you won't be able to give them the education and training
to allow them to do it.
Which means you won't get the value,
but it also means they can't rise to the occasion.
And so we're doing that right now.
The first thing we did
when Jenny and I hit about two years earlier,
we were already experimenting,
the very first thing we did was we went to our technology,
all of our main roles, and we said,
which of the roles are affected in the different skills,
and what are the brand new roles?
Like prompt engineering didn't exist, right?
And now we're systematically looking
at every role at Accenture and saying, what are the skills,
and then how are we gonna give it to them?
<v ->But given that there are these additional efficiencies,</v>
greater accuracy
without having humans double checking things,
will we see fundamentally that you need fewer people
to do each job?
Is that what it's gonna come down to,
not just in your industry,
but in in all these other industries as well?
Will we have one paralegal
be able to do the work of 20 paralegals?
Are workforce reductions inevitable?
<v ->Absolutely, this just to be clear.</v>
AI does things that we have people,
mostly it's tasks though.
One of the biggest complaints they actually have
is that people, CEOs will say,
"I'm using all this AI and I don't have less people,"
and that's because they haven't reimagined the work.
They've just taken some of the tasks.
<v ->But do you think they will end up doing mass layoffs?</v>
I mean, what is the?
<v ->No,</v>
the reason I don't think they'll end up doing massive,
so will there be a reduction?
Yes, there should be.
This goes back to skills and training,
but it opens up all these new opportunities for the company.
And so that's where you have to get the balance, right?
Every stage of technology, think about basic automation.
Back in 2015, we put out our first platform called myWizard.
We used to have tens of thousands of people doing testing,
and that platform automated most of them away.
We upskilled them and they're doing different things, right?
We also have new businesses we didn't have in 2015.
So you can't stop, each wave of technology can't stop.
The question is,
do you have the ability to use the technology
to build the new businesses,
and do you have the ability to re-skill,
but not everybody's gonna be re-skilled, right?
We know that.
That's why public and private partnerships are so important.
That's why we have to think about K through 12 education.
We have to think about college education.
And we as companies need to be able to invest.
We launched a business last year called LearnVantage,
which provides upskilling.
We spend about 1,000,000,000 a year on it today.
And a lot of our clients, once this AI hit,
were really asking us to help them.
So we launched the business.
I viewed that as much about my purpose
to deliver on the promise of technology and human ingenuity
because we have to focus as companies now
on the human ingenuity part.
But anyone that said like,
of course AI is going to reduce some jobs,
and now the idea is, and what are they gonna create?
There are jobs that don't exist,
but there's also entirely new business models
that can do hyper-personalization, for example,
that opens a whole new way of working.
We're working with clients now where the idea is at scale,
how do you be able to interact with a product,
create a whole campaign for a client to draw something new?
Those are new skills for marketing, right?
They're not gonna do the same repetitive stuff,
but now they're interacting differently, right?
We're working, if you think about
some of the stuff we're doing, like in the energy piece,
on the one hand we're driving efficiencies.
Those same companies are then turning and using that money
to invest in doing more in renewables.
And they're taking people
that they used to take more time
in the refinery doing the turnaround,
and now they're saying,
okay, now we want you to come over here
and we're training, right?
It goes back to being quite intentional
and strategic about your talent.
<v ->Yeah, and it's interesting because it seems like</v>
we know where some of these jobs will be lost,
but all the future jobs will be created.
Those are maybe in industries
we're just starting to see emerge.
Since I'm asking you
about all the the negative potential implications
of technologies like AI, I wanna talk about security,
cybersecurity, data privacy, intellectual property security.
How should the companies here,
and how do you advise your clients
to think about security in a different way,
given just how much data is being collected
and deployed through AI?
<v ->Well, first of all, AI is one of the best tools</v>
to make us all more secure.
And you know,
that's one of the most important things to understand
is that a lot of the incidents around security
come from people making mistakes, right?
It's comes from human error, still,
it's the number one cause, right?
AI is actually gonna help protect data,
it's gonna protect the enterprise.
And that's probably the most important,
you know, thing to walk away from on security
is the question that I tell CEOs to ask is,
how am I using the AI to now be more secure?
And the idea of, you know, digital, the internet, all that,
it's been expanding, that risk has been expanding.
The biggest thing that's changed
with the advent of accessible AI in this way
is now we have much better tools than we did two years ago
to help protect it.
<v ->And do you think we'll see AI regulation?</v>
<v ->I hope so.</v>
<v ->And what kind of AI regulation would you like to see</v>
and what type of regulation
do you think could be detrimental?
<v ->Well, I think for example, in the US,</v>
we've taken a very much of a perspective
of innovation first, right?
So how do you do the innovative while doing the safeguards?
Why do I say I hope so?
Because there's certain things like around data privacy
where you want consistency,
which enables to the innovation, right?
So no one, if you, you know,
we're the partners with every ecosystem partner, right?
I don't know a single ecosystem partner
who says there should be no regulation.
In fact, what they ask for is consistent regulations.
So in the US, that means let's not have something different
in every state.
<v Julia>The patchwork</v>
is always a nightmare.
<v ->Right?</v>
But also as global companies,
let's try to be as interoperable as possible,
so that you're not spending lots of money
complying with different regulations which are different,
but not in kind like, not really in kind, right?
So we think regulation is really important
and the principle is balancing innovation
with regulation and protection.
<v ->One of the most exciting things I've seen here at CES</v>
are these autonomous robots,
and I know you have a big partnership
among your many announcements here,
your partnership with NVIDIA and KION group
to create these new AI powered digital twins,
which aim to really transform warehouses.
For those of us here
who haven't gotten to see them in action
or seen these, this announcement yet,
walk us through what this means
and why you think this is so meaningful.
<v ->Well, so there's two things to remember.</v>
50% and physical AI.
So we created a warehouse solution with KION and NVIDIA.
And so think about most warehouses today, right,
still have lots of people, forklifts, you're running around,
and we believe this solution
will reduce manual labor by 50%,
which is huge because in many countries in the world,
you cannot get enough manual labor.
Like there is a shortage of people for these jobs.
It'll also reduce operating costs by 50% we believe,
and planning and optimization by 50%.
So those are real tangible business outcomes.
But it's also super exciting because it's the first
like really huge scale use of physical AI.
In fact, I was with Jensen yesterday
and we were doing an interview and you know,
he's like, "This is the first of its kind,"
and it's using these, the capabilities of AI,
but in the physical world, right,
which allows you to, you know, it senses gravity and objects
and continuously learning, so safety is much better.
You can, and it, you know,
it's actually amazing as I dug into it,
I had no idea actually how,
I always talk about supply chain
being the next digital frontier,
but when you really get into it,
like it's so not automated today, right?
And yet, you know, preparing for Black Friday
is very, very different from a slow summer period,
and all of that is still so manual.
So real tangible outcomes,
breakthroughs in how to bring AI to the physical world.
And so it's quite exciting.
<v ->Yeah and it's interesting,</v>
so it seems like this idea of physical AI,
this is gonna be really what we hear more and more about
after the past few years were dominated
more by the AI software.
Is this something you're watching being deployed more
on the physical AI level?
<v ->Yeah, in fact, if, I hope you all read our tech vision,</v>
it is our 25th anniversary
and one of the big trends we talk about are robotics,
which I think are super exciting.
And if you're walking the floor, you've seen,
there's so many different manifestations
in health and wellness.
I mean, it's really incredible what's happening there,
and it opens up a whole new way of really helping society
and businesses,
so robotics is something absolutely to watch.
There's a lot of work still to be done, but it's, you know,
really a breakthrough moment for physical AI.
<v ->Yeah, I think this will be,</v>
this year's CES will be the turning point for that.
Before we're out of time, I wanna take a step back
and have you reflect a little bit on what you have learned
by being able to work across all these different industries.
And one thing that I find so fascinating
is that you're able to take these learnings
from the retail space
and figure out what will be valuable to something
in a different sector, looking at how AI has been deployed
and tech systems have been deployed
across all of these different industries
that Accenture works with,
are there certain best practices or commonalities
that you were surprised to find
have a sort of a universal value?
<v ->I guess I would say I'm not surprised,</v>
and more than industries, you know,
we've always talked about people, process, technology.
I think it's now people, process, technology, and data.
And when I look across the industries,
creating value comes down to those things.
And I think that whoever came up
with the people, process, technology,
you know, that we've always talked about
was very deliberate in putting people first, right?
And I think, you know, as we move forward,
it does matter looking back, right,
is that we have always succeeded when we start with people
and we understand how people will experience things
because the best idea, as I used to call it,
you know, everything looks good in a PowerPoint,
and you actually go take it, start with people,
and then process comes next because the best technology,
if you can't actually change the way you work,
the technology can be super cool,
but it'll never create value.
And then data is the thing that most of us missed
over the years, right?
It was always the one that's super expensive,
people didn't wanna fix it, right,
and it's something that now everybody pays attention to.
So those are the just sort of the basics of like,
as you sort of think about,
you know, wherever you are in the world,
whatever you do as a leader,
when you think about am I using AI,
just kind of grounding yourselves
in things that actually we've known for years,
and it really doesn't matter which industry you're in.
The last thing I'd just say
is like just kind of you as a person, right,
is it's a really exciting time.
It can also feel like a scary time,
and so I just wanna maybe share it as we close.
I have this little thing in my mud room,
I live in the DC area, that my husband hung up,
and he hung it up, right,
the last couple years before I became the global CEO.
It says, he likes really cheesy things, by the way,
I'm just gonna give you that up front,
but he won in this case 'cause it's super cheesy
and I didn't wanna hang it, but I live by it now.
It says, "If your dreams don't scare you,
they're not big enough.
If your dreams don't scare you, they're not big enough."
And it's a personal motto of mine
as a leader and as a person,
because, you know, when I'm feeling like,
wow, like this is big and it's different,
then I know I'm pushing my organization and myself.
If you go to work every day
and you never feel a little like,
wow, can we really pull this off?
Then most likely someone is passing you by, right?
And as an individual, we are all gonna have to change.
I, you know, I'm changing the whole way I work
and integrating AI and, you know,
it sometimes it feels uncomfortable and like,
you know, am I getting it right?
But that's where you're dreaming big enough.
You're not gonna wake up, right,
and find yourself individually passed by.
So I wanted to share that with you
'cause it's something that does inspire me
on those moments when you sort of look at it
and you come to a place, CES, and you think like,
wow, the amount of change is tremendous.
<v ->And you're very optimistic.</v>
<v ->I'm hugely optimistic.</v>
I feel so privileged to lead right now
because the opportunities with AI,
and we didn't even really talk about
like some of the amazing things that are happening
with drug discovery.
If you read our tech division,
we talk about a company that's like creating drugs now
in half the time you know what we can do for safety,
what we can do to open up new things.
I think it's amazing.
And so we've gotta be disciplined, right, that structure,
and we've gotta dream big to make sure
that we use this tremendous technology to benefit everyone.
<v ->Well that is the perfect note to end on.</v>
Julie Sweet CEO of Accenture Global,
thank you so much
for joining us.
<v ->Thank you so much.</v>
Thanks Julia.
<v Julia>Thank you.</v>